Agile-WAM: An Agile Tactile World Action Model for
Contact-Rich Robot Control
Hanchu Zhou1,⋆, Brendan Lynch2, Raman Goyal2, Dechen Gao1,
Begum Kasap2, Boqi Zhao1, Junshan Zhang1
Fig. 1: Agile-WAM, a tactile World Action Model, takes multi-modal inputs (including visual and tactile observations) and
performs joint action–vision–tactile prediction through a direct vision-tactile-to-action flow-matching (FM) backbone. To
provide effective supervision for future latent prediction, Agile-WAM introduces multi-horizon multimodal prediction to
enable joint prediction of visual and tactile latent over different horizons. By capturing the distinct temporal dynamics of
the two modalities, Agile-WAM aligns physical dynamics modeling better with action generation and enables more precise,
fine-grained manipulation.
Abstract— World Action Models (WAMs) advance beyond
conventional visuomotor policies by jointly predicting future
world states and robot actions, enabling the policy to learn phys-
ical dynamics that support effective control. However, recent
tactile WAMs often rely on large-scale pretrained generative
backbones to capture contact-rich physical dynamics, which
limit their inference efficiency and flexible deployment. In this
paper, we present Agile-WAM, an agile tactile World Action
Model for contact-rich robot control. Agile-WAM encodes visual
and tactile observations into a shared latent that serves as the
source of a direct vision-tactile-to-action flow-matching process,
which can jointly generate latent representations of action
1Hanchu Zhou, Dechen Gao, Boqi Zhao, and Junshan Zhang are with
University of California, Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA, USA.
hczhou@ucdavis.edu
2Raman Goyal, Begum Kasap, and Brendan Lynch are with Analog
Devices, San Jose, CA, USA. Brendan.Lynch@analog.com (Cor-
responding author: Brendan Lynch)
⋆Work done during an internship at Analog Devices.
chunks and future visual/tactile latents. A key observation is
that vision and tactile signals evolve at inherently different
timescales: adjacent visual frames are often highly similar,
whereas tactile signals can change abruptly upon contact.
We therefore introduce multi-horizon multimodal prediction
in Agile-WAM, which provides supervision for visual latent
at a larger temporal offset while predicting the tactile latent
in the next frame to capture fine-grained contact dynamics.
Across nine simulated and five real-world contact-rich ma-
nipulation tasks, Agile-WAM demonstrates strong and robust
performance, outperforming the strongest baseline in success
rate while maintaining low inference latency. In particular, in
five real-world experiments, Agile-WAM yields a relative gain of
29.4% in overall success rates while achieving inference latency
of 11.9 ms. These results demonstrate that multimodal WAM
can be achieved with an agile architecture suitable for precise
and high-frequency robot control. More details are available
on our project page.
arXiv:2609.20761v1  [cs.RO]  17 Sep 2026


I. INTRODUCTION
World Action Models (WAMs) have recently emerged as a
promising paradigm for robot learning by coupling physical
dynamics prediction with action generation. In contrast to
conventional imitation learning or reinforcement learning
paradigms [1], WAMs learn how the world will evolve and
which actions should be executed jointly [2], [3], [4], [5]. By
predicting future observations from consecutive frames, the
WAM model is encouraged to capture dense spatiotemporal
information about motion and interaction in the physical
scene. Jointly modeling these future states, together with
robot actions, further fosters the learned representation to
connect physical dynamics evolution with action control. In
this way, WAMs acquire a structured look-ahead capability
and can produce actions that are more consistent with the
anticipated evolution of the physical world.
Clearly, physical interaction is not fully observable from
vision alone. This limitation is particularly pronounced in
contact-rich manipulation, where visually similar observa-
tions may correspond to substantially different physical
states, especially when the end effector contacts a rigid
object with different levels of force. These tasks often require
delicate and precise action adjustments despite exhibiting
only subtle visual differences. Tactile sensing provides a
complementary channel that captures local contact, force,
and slip, and has consequently become increasingly impor-
tant for learning precise manipulation policies [6], [7].
Recent studies have begun to incorporate tactile sensing
into world-action modeling by extending large pretrained
video generation models with tactile observations and ac-
tions [8], [9], [10]. These early attempts demonstrate that
explicitly modeling tactile dynamics can benefit contact-
rich manipulation. However, reliance on large pretrained
backbones introduces substantial computational and mem-
ory overhead during inference, which limits deployment
on robotic platforms with constrained onboard resources
and demanding high control frequencies. This gives rise
to a fundamental question: Is it possible to develop an
agile tactile-centric world-action model that enables flexible
deployment across robotic platforms, while retaining the
predictive benefits of world models?
To tackle this challenge, we first note that visual and
tactile observations evolve at inherently different time scales,
in the following sense: Visual appearance typically changes
smoothly and slowly, making adjacent visual frames highly
redundant, whereas tactile force field (TacFF) signals can
change abruptly upon contact. It would be naive to apply an
identical prediction horizon to both visual and tactile modal-
ities, which would otherwise fail to account for their distinct
temporal characteristics: Near-term visual observations often
exhibit high redundancy, providing limited supervision for
world modeling, while long-horizon tactile prediction may
be less precise due to the rapid evolution of contact sig-
nals. We address this mis-alignment through multi-horizon
multimodal prediction. Specifically, visual prediction is
supervised at a larger temporal offset, where the observation
exhibits more noticeable changes, encouraging the model
to capture meaningful visual dynamics. In contrast, tactile
prediction targets the next adjacent observation, allowing the
model to track rapid contact changes without skipping fine-
grained tactile transitions. This separate supervision mech-
anism better matches the temporal characteristics of each
modality and supports precise contact-rich manipulation.
With this insight, we introduce Agile-WAM, an ag-
ile tactile World Action Model for contact-rich robot
control. Rather than finetuning a large video foundation
model, Agile-WAM employs a vision-tactile-to-action flow-
matching backbone trained from scratch using visual ob-
servations and TacFF signals. The direct transition from
vision-tactile to action obviates the need for repeated visual
conditioning during the flow, thus significantly reducing
the complexity [11]. As illustrated in fig. 1, the model
first encodes both visual and tactile modalities into fused
latent representations, and then jointly predicts future visual
observations and future tactile observations using multi-
horizon multimodal prediction, as well as action chunks.
Specifically, the fused latent representation, which captures
both visual and tactile information, serves as the source dis-
tribution. A vision-tactile-to-action flow-matching network
then learns a velocity field that directly transports this source
representation toward a target latent composed of three parts:
the action latent, future visual latent, and future tactile
latent. We supervise these components with modality-specific
objectives, applying the action loss in the action space and
the visual and tactile prediction losses in their respective
latent spaces. This joint objective encourages the policy
representation to capture both visual evolution and local
contact dynamics, thereby better aligning action generation
with future dynamics and enabling fine-grained actions re-
quired for contact-rich manipulation. Meanwhile, the vision-
tactile-to-action flow-matching backbone eliminates the need
for costly conditioning mechanisms and enables a direct
mapping from observations to actions and future observa-
tions using a compact backbone, thereby improving action
precision and inference efficiency.
We evaluate Agile-WAM on nine simulated and five real-
world contact-rich manipulation tasks, with focus on its
performance and inference efficiency. Extensive ablations
further isolate the contributions of tactile sensing and the
multi-horizon multimodal prediction.
The main contributions of this paper are summarized as
follows:
• We introduce Agile-WAM, an agile tactile World Ac-
tion Model that encodes visual and tactile multi-modal
observations into a shared latent space, which directly
drives a vision-tactile-to-action flow-matching model
to jointly predict future visual observations, TacFF
observations, and robot actions. In particular, the vision-
tactile-to-action mechanism substantially reduces the
computational overhead by removing cross-attention,
thus improving inference efficiency.
• We propose multi-horizon multimodal prediction that
supervises visual and tactile signals at different temporal


offsets, capitalizing their inherent physical dynamics
across distinct timescales, thus improving action gen-
eration for contact-rich manipulation.
• We evaluate Agile-WAM on nine simulated and five
real-world contact-rich tasks. In particular, in five real-
world experiments, Agile-WAM yields a relative gain of
29.4% in overall success rates while achieving inference
latency of 11.9 ms. Comprehensive ablation studies
demonstrate the effectiveness of each design choice and
model component.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Tactile Integration in Robot Learning
Tactile sensing provides complementary physical informa-
tion on contact surface that is difficult to infer from vision
alone. Recent work has developed transferable tactile rep-
resentations across different sensors and modalities through
self-supervised learning, multimodal alignment, and sensor-
invariant representation learning [12], [13], [14]. Beyond
representation learning, tactile and force feedback have also
been incorporated directly into manipulation policies to im-
prove contact-rich control, with recent approaches emphasiz-
ing force-aware policy learning and fast tactile feedback for
reactive manipulation [7], [6]. These studies demonstrate the
importance of tactile feedback for physical interaction, but
most use tactile signals primarily as additional policy inputs
or reactive feedback. In contrast, Agile-WAM explicitly mod-
els the future evolution of tactile observations together with
visual observations and actions, allowing tactile dynamics to
directly participate in predictive policy learning.
B. World Action Models for Robotics
World Action Models extend conventional visuomotor
policies by jointly learning future world evolution and robot
actions, encouraging the policy to capture physical dynamics
that are useful for control. Recent approaches have explored
joint observation–action modeling [2], [3], [4]. More recent
work further scales this paradigm with large generative
backbones, demonstrating that jointly modeling future obser-
vations and actions can improve physical generalization and
support closed-loop robot control [5]. While most existing
approaches focus primarily on visual observations, concur-
rent studies have begun incorporating tactile signals into
predictive world-action modeling for contact-rich manipula-
tion [8], [9]. However, these tactile extensions largely build
upon large pretrained backbones. Agile-WAM instead studies
an agile alternative that jointly models visual, tactile, and
action dynamics with an efficient architecture designed for
high-frequency robot control and low-resource deployment.
C. Flow Matching for Generative Model and Robot Control
Flow matching learns a continuous vector field that trans-
ports samples between source and target distributions, en-
abling high-quality generation with efficient inference and
making it well suited for continuous action generation [15],
[16]. In robot learning, flow-based policies have been applied
to action generation from visual and 3D observations, while
recent methods further improve inference efficiency by re-
ducing the number of flow-matching steps required for action
generation [17], [18], [19]. Flow matching has also been suc-
cessfully scaled to large generalist robot policies, demonstrat-
ing its effectiveness for learning complex and multimodal
action distributions [20]. More recent work develops noise-
free flow-matching policies by replacing Gaussian noise
with informative representations derived from observations
or previous actions, achieving strong control performance
with substantially improved inference efficiency [11], [19].
Inspired by this direction, Agile-WAM adopts vision-tactile-
to-action direct flow matching as an efficient backbone and
generalizes it beyond action generation to jointly model
future visual and tactile observations.
III. METHODOLOGIES
Agile-WAM aims to capture multimodal world dynam-
ics in a shared latent space to support high-quality action
generation. In this section, we describe how this objective
is realized with a lightweight vision-tactile-to-action flow
matching backbone and several key design choices. In sec-
tion III-A, we formulate the direct mapping from current
observations to joint action-future predictions. In section III-
B, we present the overall architecture of Agile-WAM and
its training objectives. In section III-C, we introduce multi-
horizon multimodal prediction designed to better capture the
distinct dynamics of different modalities.
A. From Observation to Action–Vision–Tactile Joint Predic-
tion
We formulate robot control as joint action and future
latent prediction. At environment step t, the robot receives
a multimodal observation Ot
=

Ovis
t , Otac
t
, qt

, where
Ovis
t
denotes the visual observation, Otac
t
denotes the tactile
force field (TacFF), and qt denotes robot’s proprioceptive
states. Rather than learning only an action generation policy,
our policy π
 at:t+H, zfuture
t
| Ot

jointly models an action
chunk and the future evolution of both modalities, where
at+H denotes an action chunk with prediction horizon H, of
which only the first h actions are executed before replanning.
zfuture
t
=

zvis
t+hvis, ztac
t+htac

comprises latent representations
of future observations. We emphasize that jointly predicting
future observations and actions encourages the learned repre-
sentation to capture subtle physical dynamics that are directly
relevant to contact-rich robot control, rather than relying only
on the simple mapping from observation to action.
To this end, we develop this joint prediction algorithm us-
ing vision-tactile-to-action flow matching. Traditional flow-
based policies typically start from a random Gaussian noise
and repeatedly inject observations through conditioning mod-
ules, such as cross-attention. Instead, our backbone uses the
latent representation of the current multimodal observation
directly as the sole source of the flow, eliminating the need
for an explicit conditioning mechanism during generation.
This substantially simplifies the generation process and re-
duces computational overhead, leading to improved inference
efficiency [11].


Fig. 2: Overview of Agile-WAM. Agile-WAM encodes visual, tactile, and proprioceptive observations into a shared latent
that serves as the source of a lightweight vision-tactile-to-action flow-matching backbone. The flow jointly generates latent
representations of the action chunk and future visual and tactile observations. An action autoencoder provides a structured
action latent space, while multi-horizon multimodal prediction uses a longer horizon for vision and a short horizon for
tactile feedback to capture their distinct temporal dynamics. The model is trained end-to-end with flow-matching, action
reconstruction and generation, and visual/tactile latent prediction losses.
We use learned encoders to encode the image and TacFF
observations respectively, and fuse them into observation
latent z0 as the source of the flow. The target of the flow
is divided into the action and future multimodal obser-
vations: z1 =

za
1, zvis
1 , ztac
1

. The source and target are
constructed to have the same dimensionality, as required by
flow matching. For a flow time τ ∈[0, 1], we define the
linear interpolation
zτ = (1 −τ)z0 + τz1,
whose target velocity is z1 −z0. A lightweight flow network
vθ learns the vision-tactile-to-action velocity field through
LFM = Eτ,z0,z1
h
∥vθ(zτ, τ) −(z1 −z0)∥2
2
i
.
Since sensory information is already embedded in the
source z0, vθ does not require an additional observation-
conditioning module during ODE integration.
At inference time, the current observation is encoded once
into z0, after which we solve
dzτ
dτ = vθ(zτ, τ),
zτ=0 = z0,
from τ = 0 to τ = 1. This produces the predicted joint
latent ˆz1 =

ˆza
1, ˆzvis
1 , ˆztac
1

, from which the action chunk is
decoded and executed.
B. The Design of Agile-WAM
The overall architecture of Agile-WAM is illustrated in
fig. 2. The model consists of modality-specific encoders,
an action autoencoder, and a lightweight flow-matching
network.
a) Multimodal observation encoding: At the input side,
the learned visual encoder and tactile encoder extract rep-
resentations from the current RGB image Ovis
t
and TacFF
Otac
t
signal respectively. Their features are concatenated
with proprioceptive states qt and subsequently fused into the
source latent z0 through linear projection. In this way, visual
and tactile information is incorporated once at the beginning
of the flow, allowing the subsequent generation process to
operate directly in the fused latent space without repeatedly
injecting conditions.
b) Latent action representation:
Inspired by VITA
[11], we adopt the same design on action decoding that pro-
vides supervision on action space to prevent the collapse of
action generation. We therefore introduce an action encoder
Ea and decoder Da to construct a structured latent action
space:
za
1 = Ea(at:t+H),
˜at:t+H = Da(za
1).
The action autoencoder is trained end-to-end with the policy
using
LAE = ∥at:t+H −Da(Ea(at:t+H))∥1 .
(1)
During inference, however, the action decoder receives the
ODE-generated latent ˆza
1 rather than the encoder-generated
target za
1. To align the decoder with the action latent gen-
erated via flow matching, we additionally decode the ODE-
generated latent during training to provide supervision on
action space:
Lact = ∥at:t+H −Da(ˆza
1)∥1 .
(2)
Gradients from this objective are propagated through the
action decoder and the ODE integration process, directly
anchoring the generated latent to executable ground-truth
actions. Together, Eqs. (1) and (2) stabilize the learned
action representation while reducing the discrepancy between
training-time target latents and inference-time generated la-
tents.
C. Multi-horizon Multimodal Prediction
A key challenge in multimodal world modeling is that
different sensing modalities evolve at different temporal
scales. Consecutive visual observations often exhibit sub-
stantial redundancy because scene appearance changes rela-
tively smoothly. In contrast, tactile signals can vary sharply
within a short period when the robot establishes contact
or encounters resistance. Consequently, imposing the same
prediction horizon on both modalities can lead to mismatched


learning signals: a short visual horizon provides only trivial
supervision due to the limited changes between nearby
frames, whereas a long tactile horizon may blur the fine-
grained contact dynamics essential for precise control.
To account for these heterogeneous dynamics, we intro-
duce multi-horizon multimodal prediction. Instead of predict-
ing vision and tactile latents at the same future step, their
target latents are constructed as
zvis
1
= Evis
 Ovis
t+hvis

,
ztac
1
= Etac
 Otac
t+htac

In our design, tactile prediction focuses on the next future
frame, i.e., htac = 1, while visual prediction uses a longer
temporal offset hvis = h that matches the executed action
length at inference. The longer visual horizon encourages
the model to capture meaningful scene evolution rather
than collapsing to duplicate current frames, whereas the
shorter tactile horizon preserves abruptly changing contact
information.
After solving the flow ODE, the predicted joint latent
is decomposed into action, visual, and tactile components.
Multimodal future prediction is supervised in latent space:
Lvis =
ˆzvis
1
−zvis
1
2
2 ,
Ltac =
ˆztac
1
−ztac
1
2
2
Unlike pixel-level reconstruction, latent prediction provides
a compact learning objective that encourages the shared
flow representation to capture task-relevant evolution of both
modalities without requiring expensive high-dimensional ob-
servation generation.
Together, the complete training objective is
LAgile-WAM = λFMLFM + λAELAE + λactLact
+ λvisLvis + λtacLtac,
where λFM, λAE, λact, λvis, and λtac control the relative
contributions of the five objectives. Through this joint opti-
mization, Agile-WAM learns a compact flow representation
that simultaneously captures multimodal world modeling
and generates high-quality action sequences for contact-rich
manipulation.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
We evaluate Agile-WAM on nine simulated and five
real-world contact-rich manipulation tasks. The simulation
experiments are conducted using ManiFeel [21], a compre-
hensive benchmark for tactile manipulation policy learning
that provides realistic tactile simulation and challenging tasks
in which tactile feedback is essential. The platform uses a
7-DoF Franka Emika Panda robot equipped with a TacFF
sensor on its gripper. The TacFF sensor has a resolution of
10 × 14, with each sensing point measuring force magni-
tude and directions along the x- and y-axes, resulting in
a 10 × 14 × 3 tactile observation. For each task, we use
20–50 demonstrations from the official dataset for training.
Following the benchmark’s standard setup, only the wrist
camera of 256 × 256 is used during training and evaluation.
Because the wrist camera view is frequently occluded as the
gripper interacts with the target object, this setting highlights
the importance of tactile feedback.
For the real-world experiments, we use a 7-DoF Flexiv
Rizon 4 robot to evaluate five challenging tasks: Gear Assem-
bly, Peg Insertion, Internet Cable Insertion, Internet Cable
Unplugging, and Power Plug Insertion, as illustrated in fig. 3.
Visual observations are captured using an Intel RealSense
D405 RGB-D wrist camera at a resolution of 320 × 240 and
a frame rate of 30 FPS. Tactile feedback is acquired at 30
Hz using an Analog Devices 32 × 32 piezoresistive pressure
sensor mounted on the gripper. For each task, we collect 50
expert demonstrations through teleoperation using a Meta
Quest 3 headset.
Fig. 3: Real-world experiments include five challenging
tasks: Gear Assembly, Peg Insertion, Internet Cable Insertion,
Internet Cable Unplugging, and Power Plug Insertion.
A. Experiment Settings
Backbones. We use an ImageNet-pretrained ResNet-18 as
the visual encoder and an MLP-based autoencoder to encode
and reconstruct action sequences. Because the TacFF signal
has a spatial structure analogous to that of an image, we
employ a separate ResNet-18, trained from scratch, as the
tactile encoder to extract contact-related features. For flow
matching, we adopt a lightweight MLP to parameterize the
velocity field. During inference, we integrate the learned
ODE using an explicit Euler solver with 6 steps to generate
action and future latents.
Baselines. We compare Agile-WAM with state-of-the-art
vision-based and tactile-aware policies, including Diffusion
Policy with visual observations (DP), Diffusion Policy with
visual and tactile observations (DP-VT) [21], Tactile-WAM
[9], and the vision-only (VITA) [11] and vision–tactile
variants of VITA (VITA-VT). For a fair comparison, we re-
produce Tactile-WAM by incorporating its core component,
the Tactile Asymmetric Attention mechanism, into the tac-
tile diffusion-policy implementation provided by ManiFeel.
We additionally construct the VITA-VT by augmenting the
original vision-only VITA with tactile observations using
the same multimodal fusion strategy as Agile-WAM. The
performance and efficiency comparisons are presented in
section IV-B.
Real-World Tasks. We design five challenging real-world
manipulation tasks that require tactile feedback for precise
object alignment and correction. As illustrated in fig. 3, the
tasks are:
Gear Assembly: The gear set is 3D-printed using the same
assets as the corresponding ManiFeel task. The robot must


TABLE I: Success rates comparison on simulation tasks
Task
Agile-WAM
VITA-VT
VITA
Tactile-WAM
DP-VT
DP
Bulb Screw
92.67±2.49
87.33±0.94
71.33±0.94
4.00±0.00
4.67±2.49
5.33±0.94
Gear Assembly
70.67±2.49
68.67±1.89
68.33±0.47
68.00±1.63
58.67±6.18
58.67±1.89
Power Plug Insertion
59.33±0.94
63.33±3.27
54.67±3.40
61.33±2.49
58.00±3.27
53.67±1.25
Peg Reorientation
42.00±1.63
28.67±0.94
41.33±4.11
34.67±2.49
28.00±2.83
22.00±1.63
Peg Insertion
49.33±0.94
47.33±2.49
44.00±1.67
40.00±9.80
20.67±13.20
21.33±18.86
USB Insertion
62.00±5.89
59.33±9.43
55.33±4.11
44.67±8.06
38.00±2.83
41.33±5.25
Ball Sorting
92.00±0.00
90.00±3.27
72.00±7.12
45.33±0.94
74.67±5.25
38.67±3.40
Object Search
50.67±2.49
36.00±2.83
40.00±3.27
33.33±2.49
13.33±0.94
14.67±3.40
Nut Bolt Threading
92.67±2.49
92.00±2.83
86.67±4.71
13.33±2.49
72.00±3.27
4.67±0.94
TABLE II: Success rate comparison on real-world tasks.
Policy
Gear Assembly
Peg Insertion
Power Plug Insertion
Agile-WAM
0.80 (16/20)
0.55 (11/20)
0.65 (13/20)
VITA-VT
0.55 (11/20)
0.60 (12/20)
0.35 (7/20)
VITA
0.75 (15/20)
0.25 (5/20)
0.25 (5/20)
Policy
Internet Cable Insertion
Internet Cable Unplugging
Agile-WAM
0.30 (6/20)
0.85 (17/20)
VITA-VT
0.15 (3/20)
0.75 (15/20)
VITA
0.20 (4/20)
0.20 (4/20)
insert the middle gear onto its shaft and then perform slight
rotation until its teeth properly engage with the neighboring
gears.
Peg Insertion: The peg and base are 3D-printed from the
ManiFeel assets. The robot must align the peg with the hole
and insert it successfully.
Internet Cable Insertion: The robot inserts a standard
Ethernet cable with a locking tab into the port. It must
carefully align the port and push it in until it locks.
Internet Cable Unplugging: The robot must grasp the Eth-
ernet cable, depress the locking tab to release the connector,
and then pull the cable out of the port.
Power Plug Insertion: The robot must align and insert a
two-prong power plug into a surge protector. As the plug
approaches the outlet, it occludes most of the wrist-camera
view, making tactile feedback particularly important.
Training and Evaluation. In both simulation and real-
world settings, all methods use an action chunk horizon
H = 16 and execute h = 8 actions at each inference step.
We use 6 ODE integration steps for VITA, VITA-VT, and
Agile-WAM, and 100 denoising steps for DP and DP-VT.
During training, we evaluate each policy every 500 training
steps with 50 evaluation rollouts in simulation. Policies are
trained for 40k–100k steps to ensure convergence of the
success rate. For each task, we report the highest success rate
achieved during training, averaged over three random seeds.
In the real-world experiments, each policy is evaluated for
20 episodes per task. All training and evaluation experiments
can be performed on a single NVIDIA RTX 4090 GPU.
B. Performance
In
this
section,
we
highlight
the
performance
of
Agile-WAM that it matches or outperforms the state-of-
the-art methods with respect to success rate. Additionally,
we demonstrates its competitive inference efficiency against
baseline while retain the benefit of world modeling.
1) Success Rates: We evaluate Agile-WAM on nine sim-
ulation tasks and five real-world tasks against state-of-the-
art baselines. Simulation and real-world success rates are
reported in section IV and table II, respectively. By lever-
aging both learned world dynamics and tactile feedback,
Agile-WAM exhibits effective corrective behaviors in both
simulation and real-world experiments. In the real-world
demonstrations, we deliberately include trajectories in which
the object is not precisely installed on the first attempt
and the robot must perform corrective motions to complete
the task. With the limited view of the wrist camera, these
corrections are particularly challenging, as the policy must
maintain sufficient contact to acquire informative tactile
feedback while avoiding damage to the objects or grip-
per. Benefiting from tactile signal and learned dynamics,
Agile-WAM efficiently learns these delicate behaviors and
actively attempts recovery when the initial insertion fails, as
illustrated in fig. 4.
Fig. 4: Agile-WAM effectively learns corrective behaviors
in real-world experiments. When the initial attempt fails to
align the object with the target position, Agile-WAM can still
recover under an obstructed visual view by gently maintain-
ing contact with the surrounding surface and using tactile
feedback to search for the correct insertion position. This
recovery capability substantially improves the success rate
over baselines, which often fail to correct the misalignment.
For example, during peg insertion, the wrist camera view
becomes partially occluded by the peg as it approaches the
bottom, making it difficult to determine visually whether the


peg is aligned with the hole or pressed against its edge.
In such cases, Agile-WAM responds to tactile feedback
by sliding the peg along the surface toward the hole until
successful insertion. Similarly, during gear assembly, the
middle gear can become stuck against the other gears and fail
to engage properly. Agile-WAM detects this stagnation and
performs corrective twisting motions until the gear becomes
aligned and fits into place. In contrast, VITA relies solely
on visual observations and therefore has limited awareness
of contact states. VITA-VT incorporates tactile observations
but often fails to learn stable recovery behaviors, tending to
become stuck or push blindly after an unsuccessful initial
attempt. These results demonstrate that joint action–future
modeling encourages the policy representation to capture
both visual evolution and local contact dynamics, enabling
the fine-grained corrective actions required for contact-rich
manipulation.
2) Inference Efficiency: We compare the inference effi-
ciency of Agile-WAM with several baselines. All measure-
ments are conducted on a single NVIDIA RTX 4090 in FP32
with a batch size of 1. Each method generates an action
chunk with a horizon of 16, and the reported inference time
is averaged over 50 runs. We follow the same sampling
settings as in the simulation experiments, using 6 sampling
steps for VITA and Agile-WAM, and 100 denoising steps
for DP, DP-VT and TAAM. Inference time is measured end-
to-end from observation input to action generation, while
the corresponding control frequency represents the maxi-
mum frequency supported by policy inference. In practical
deployment, the actual control frequency may additionally
be limited by factors such as the robot control interface and
sensor sampling rate. Additionally, for easier comparison, we
normalize the metric of VITA to 1× and report the relative
values for the other policies.
The results in table III show that Agile-WAM main-
tains low inference latency comparable to VITA while
achieving a control frequency up to 40× higher than DP.
Although Agile-WAM shares the same lightweight flow-
matching backbone as VITA, it additionally incorporates tac-
tile encoding and a larger latent space for future prediction.
These additions introduce little inference overhead due to the
compact model design. Although Agile-WAM operates on a
larger latent space, the additional computation is efficiently
parallelized on the GPU, resulting in inference latency com-
parable to VITA. As a result, Agile-WAM remains an agile
yet capable World Action Model, making it suitable for high-
frequency robot control and potentially for deployment on
computationally constrained edge platforms.
C. Ablation of World Modeling
We investigate the benefits of world modeling by ablating
the prediction losses and the modalities involved in future
prediction. As shown in fig. 5(a), Agile-WAM outperforms
the baseline without joint action–future modeling. As joint
prediction requires a larger flow-matching latent space than
the non-predictive baseline, we further disable the world-
modeling loss terms Lvis and Ltac of Agile-WAM while
TABLE III: Inference efficiency comparison.
Model
Inference Time
Control Frequency
Value (ms)
Relative
Value (Hz)
Relative
Agile-WAM
10.35±0.14
1.07×
96.62
0.94×
VITA
9.71±0.11
1.00×
102.99
1.00×
VITA-VT
10.52±0.14
1.08×
95.06
0.92×
DP
408.59±0.47
42.08×
2.45
0.02×
DP-VT
420.34±0.36
43.29×
2.38
0.02×
TAAM
636.34±0.90
65.53×
1.57
0.02×
Fig. 5: Ablation studies of Agile-WAM. (a) Joint action–
future modeling improves performance beyond the gain from
increased latent capacity. (b) Jointly modeling both future
visual and tactile observations provides the strongest perfor-
mance under multimodal input. (c) Multi-horizon multimodal
prediction better matches the different temporal character-
istics of vision and tactile signals. (d) We vary the visual
and tactile prediction loss weights to explore their respective
influence on policy performance.
keeping the enlarged latent for prediction head unchanged.
This comparison isolates the effect of world modeling from
the additional model capacity. The results show that the im-
provement mainly comes from joint action–future modeling
rather than the larger latent space. By jointly learning actions
and future observations, the policy can better capture how
its actions affect subsequent states, leading to higher-quality
actions that are consistent with the expected future evolution.
We further study the contribution of predicting different
observation modalities. In contact-rich manipulation, vision
and tactile sensing provide complementary feedback, and
modeling their future states can impose different forms of
alignment on action learning. We therefore compare different
combinations of visual and tactile prediction when both
modalities are provided as input, as well as visual prediction
when only vision is available. As shown in fig. 5(b), visual
world modeling improves performance in the vision-only
setting. When both vision and tactile observations are used
as input, however, removing the prediction of either modality
degrades performance, while Agile-WAM achieves the best
result by jointly predicting both future vision and tactile
observations. These results suggest that world modeling is


most effective when the predicted modalities are consistent
with the observation modalities available to the policy. With
multimodal input, predicting the future of only one modality
provides incomplete supervision of the environment dynam-
ics, whereas jointly modeling both modalities encourages the
policy to learn a stronger correspondence among multimodal
observations, actions, and future states.
D. Ablation of Prediction Horizon
We analyze the importance of multi-horizon multimodal
prediction by varying the prediction horizons for vision
and tactile observations. Visual observations typically evolve
smoothly over time, making adjacent-frame prediction highly
redundant and potentially too trivial to provide effective
supervision to learn visual dynamics. In contrast, tactile
signals can change abruptly upon contact, so short-horizon
prediction is better suited to capturing fine-grained contact
dynamics. We therefore compare our multi-horizon predic-
tion design against two alternatives: next-frame prediction
for both vision and tactile, and the same longer prediction
horizon for both modalities. As shown in fig. 5(c), using the
same prediction horizon for vision and tactile consistently
degrades performance. A long prediction horizon for tactile
can overlook high-frequency contact changes, whereas next-
frame visual prediction provides limited learning signal and
fails to capture precise visual dynamics due to the strong
redundancy between adjacent frames. Consistent with the
observations in section IV-C, ineffective prediction of either
modality weakens the alignment between future modeling
and multimodal observations, ultimately degrading the qual-
ity of the jointly generated actions.
V. CONCLUSIONS
This paper presented Agile-WAM, an agile tactile World
Action Model that couples multimodal world prediction with
action generation for contact-rich manipulation. By using
the fused observation latent as the source of a vision-
tactile-to-action flow, Agile-WAM jointly generates action,
visual, and tactile representations without relying on a large
generative backbone or complex conditioning modules. Its
multi-horizon multimodal prediction mechanism provides
supervision matched to the temporal characteristics of each
modality: longer-horizon visual prediction captures mean-
ingful evolution, whereas next-step tactile prediction pre-
serves rapid contact dynamics. Evaluations on nine simulated
and five real-world tasks demonstrate strong performance
across diverse contact-rich interactions. At the same time,
Agile-WAM maintains low inference latency and a high
control frequency. Overall, these results demonstrate that
tactile World Action Model can be both effective and com-
putationally efficient, making Agile-WAM well suited for
precise, high-frequency robot manipulation.
REFERENCES
[1] D. Gao, H. Wang, H. Zhou, N. Ammar, S. Mishra, A. Moradipari,
I. Soltani, and J. Zhang, “In-ril: Interleaved reinforcement and imita-
tion learning for policy fine-tuning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.10442,
2025.
[2] Y. Guo, Y. Hu, J. Zhang, Y.-J. Wang, X. Chen, C. Lu, and J. Chen,
“Prediction with action: Visual policy learning via joint denoising
process,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 37,
pp. 112 386–112 410, 2024.
[3] S. Li, Y. Gao, D. Sadigh, and S. Song, “Unified Video Action Model,”
in Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems, LosAngeles, CA,
USA, June 2025.
[4] C. Wan, K. Wang, Y. Si, P. Zhang, and M. Li, “Worldagen: Unified
state-action prediction with test-time world model training,” in Pro-
ceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 40,
no. 22, 2026, pp. 18 584–18 592.
[5] S. Ye, Y. Ge, K. Zheng, S. Gao, S. Yu, G. Kurian, S. Indupuru,
Y. L. Tan, C. Zhu, J. Xiang et al., “World action models are zero-
shot policies,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.15922, 2026.
[6] H. Xue, J. Ren, W. Chen, G. Zhang, Y. Fang, G. Gu, H. Xu, and C. Lu,
“Reactive diffusion policy: Slow-fast visual-tactile policy learning for
contact-rich manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.02881, 2025.
[7] J. J. Liu, Y. Li, K. Shaw, T. Tao, R. Salakhutdinov, and D. Pathak,
“Factr: Force-attending curriculum training for contact-rich policy
learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.17432, 2025.
[8] H. Yuan, W. Yi, Z. Zhang, W. Chen, Y. Mo, J. Yin, X. Li, X. Zeng,
C. Wen, C. Lu et al., “Vtam: Video-tactile-action models for complex
physical interaction beyond vlas,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.23481,
2026.
[9] S. Wu, L. You, J. Zhu, Y. Liu, H. Kaixiang, C. Yonghang, J. Li,
C. Zhang, J. Liu, Z. Hengshuo et al., “Tactile-wam: Touch-aware
world action model with tactile asymmetric attention,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2606.26663, 2026.
[10] Y. Lou, Y. Ye, Y. Fu, J. Cen, X. Chi, Y. Lyu, P. Jia, S. Han, Z. Lu,
and S. Zhang, “Dream-tac: A unified tactile world action model for
contact-rich robot manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.08737,
2026.
[11] D. Gao, B. Zhao, A. Lee, I. Chuang, H. Zhou, H. Wang, Z. Zhao,
J. Zhang, and I. Soltani, “Vita: Vision-to-action flow matching policy,”
in International Conference on Learning Representations, vol. 2026,
2026, pp. 100 903–100 933.
[12] R. Feng, J. Hu, W. Xia, T. Gao, A. Shen, Y. Sun, B. Fang, and
D. Hu, “Anytouch: Learning unified static-dynamic representation
across multiple visuo-tactile sensors,” in International Conference on
Learning Representations, vol. 2025, 2025, pp. 31 265–31 285.
[13] H. Gupta, Y. Mo, S. Jin, and W. Yuan, “Sensor-invariant tactile repre-
sentation,” in International Conference on Learning Representations,
vol. 2025, 2025, pp. 96 515–96 538.
[14] R. Feng, Y. Zhou, S. Mei, D. Zhou, P. Wang, S. Cui, B. Fang, G. Yao,
and D. Hu, “Anytouch 2: General optical tactile representation learning
for dynamic tactile perception,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.09617,
2026.
[15] Y. Lipman, R. T. Chen, H. Ben-Hamu, M. Nickel, and M. Le, “Flow
matching for generative modeling,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02747,
2022.
[16] F. Zhang and M. Gienger, “Affordance-based robot manipulation with
flow matching,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.01083, 2024.
[17] E. Chisari, N. Heppert, M. Argus, T. Welschehold, T. Brox, and
A. Valada, “Learning robotic manipulation policies from point clouds
with conditional flow matching,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.07343,
2024.
[18] X. Hu, B. Liu, X. Liu, and Q. Liu, “Adaflow: Imitation learning with
variance-adaptive flow-based policies,” Advances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems, vol. 37, pp. 138 836–138 858, 2024.
[19] Q. Zhang, Z. Liu, H. Fan, G. Liu, B. Zeng, and S. Liu, “Flowpolicy:
Enabling fast and robust 3d flow-based policy via consistency flow
matching for robot manipulation,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Con-
ference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 39, no. 14, 2025, pp. 14 754–
14 762.
[20] K. Black, N. Brown, D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn,
N. Fusai, L. Groom, K. Hausman, B. Ichter et al., “π0: A vision-
language-action flow model for general robot control,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[21] Q. K. Luu, P. Zhou, Z. Xu, Z. Zhang, Q. Qiu, and Y. She, “Manifeel:
Benchmarking and understanding visuotactile manipulation policy
learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.18472, 2025.
