ActGaze: Learning Action-Grounded Gaze through Counterfactual
Visual Interventions for High-Precision Manipulation
Jinxuan Zhu1,2*, Jiaheng Wang1*, Chao Tang1, Mengfan Wang1, Hao Wei1, Shengbao Li1,
Hong Yin1, Yiwen Gao2, Chenrui Tie2, and Tingguang Li1†
1Samsung Robotics eXperience
2National University of Singapore
*Equal contribution.
†Corresponding author.
Abstract— Current Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models
often struggle with high-precision robotic manipulation. We
attribute this limitation primarily to their visual attention being
dispersed across task-irrelevant regions. To address this issue,
we propose ActGaze, a training approach that guides VLA
policies to gaze on task-relevant regions, much like humans
gaze on critical visual cues while executing precise movements.
Unlike prior methods that rely on external labels for gaze
supervision, ActGaze derives spatial supervision directly from
the VLA’s own action objective by using counterfactual visual
interventions to identify regions that are critical for action
prediction. Extensive real-robot experiments on four high-
precision robotic manipulation tasks demonstrate that ActGaze
induces more focused visual attention on task-relevant regions
and consistently outperforms the base VLA policy and other
visual-grounding approaches. More details can be found on:
ActGaze Homepage.
I. INTRODUCTION
Vision-Language-Action
(VLA)
models
[1]–[4]
have
demonstrated strong generalization capabilities and broad po-
tential for robotic manipulation. However, current VLAs still
struggle with high-precision tasks such as insertion [5] and
assembly [6], [7], which are fundamental to many real-world
and industrial applications. Based on prior work [8]–[10]
and our empirical analysis, we identify misallocated visual
attention as a major failure mode of VLA policies: rather
than concentrating on task-relevant regions, these models
often attend to background clutter and visual distractors. This
challenge is particularly pronounced in high-precision ma-
nipulation, where only a small subset of visual regions may
contain information critical to the current action. In standard
end-to-end VLA training, the action objective supervises
the predicted actions but does not directly constrain where
the model should attend. As a result, task-relevant visual
evidence may not be explicitly prioritized during action
prediction, potentially affecting the robustness and general-
ization of VLA policies in high-precision manipulation.
A natural way to address this limitation is to provide
explicit image-space supervision that guides the policy to
gaze on visual regions relevant to action generation. Existing
approaches derive such supervision from recorded human
gaze [11]–[13], manually annotated masks or keypoints [14],
[15], and pseudo-labels generated by external models [9],
[16]. While effective, these approaches require additional
effort to obtain spatial supervision, limiting their widespread
Fig. 1.
Overview of ActGaze. ActGaze estimates the visual relevance
via counterfactual visual intervention and action changes, guiding the VLA
policy to gaze on task-relevant regions rather than dispersed visual cues.
deployment. We therefore seek to derive explicit spatial
supervision directly from the action objective.
To address the problem, we introduce ActGaze, an action-
grounded gaze learning approach that derives explicit spatial
supervision from the action objective through counterfactual
visual interventions. ActGaze builds on a simple counter-
factual question [8], [17]–[20]: how well would the policy
predict the action if the visual evidence in a region were
suppressed, while the rest of the observation remained un-
changed? The resulting increase in action-prediction loss
provides an estimate of the policy’s dependence on that
region. ActGaze turns these estimates into explicit spatial
supervision to guide the policy’s attention. Based on this
idea, ActGaze first applies hierarchical counterfactual visual
interventions to probe a VLA policy already trained on task
demonstrations, measuring how interventions on different
camera views and image regions affect its action predictions,
as illustrated in Fig. 1. Image regions that cause larger degra-
dation in action prediction are considered more important
for decision-making, providing explicit spatial supervision
for training a multi-view gaze head. The learned gaze is
then transferred back to the VLA in the gaze-to-action
arXiv:2609.28955v1  [cs.RO]  24 Sep 2026


refinement stage, encouraging the VLA’s action attention to
align with the gaze head prediction. In this way, ActGaze
converts intervention-induced changes in action prediction
into explicit spatial guidance without requiring additional
spatial annotations or external grounding models.
We evaluate ActGaze on four real-world manipulation
tasks requiring sub-millimeter precision. ActGaze produces
more task-relevant visual attention and improves the average
success rate from 77.0% to 91.5%. It also outperforms
CoT Grounding [21] and Implicit Grounding [9] in average
success rate by 32.5% and 25.0%, respectively, without
requiring the external spatial supervision used by these base-
lines. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of action-
grounded spatial guidance for high-precision manipulation.
We summarize our contributions as follows:
• We introduce ActGaze, an action-grounded gaze learn-
ing approach that derives spatial supervision from
intervention-induced changes in action prediction, with-
out requiring external annotations or grounding models.
• We introduce counterfactual visual interventions to
identify task-relevant visual regions, together with
staged training that enables effective spatial knowledge
distillation and policy refinement.
• We evaluate our method on four real-world manipula-
tion tasks requiring sub-millimeter precision, demon-
strating consistent improvements over the base policy
and other visual-grounding approaches.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Spatial Guidance in VLA Policies
Identifying task-relevant visual regions is important for
action generation in VLA policies. In standard end-to-end
training, the action objective supervises predicted actions but
does not directly constrain where the policy should attend.
Consequently, VLA policies may attend to task-irrelevant
regions, limiting their ability to exploit fine-grained visual
cues for high-precision manipulation. Existing approaches
address this limitation through two broad forms.
One line of work relies on external spatial supervision, in-
cluding recorded human gaze [11]–[13], manually annotated
masks or keypoints [14], [15], and pseudo-labels generated
by external models [11], [22]. While effective, obtaining
such supervision requires additional effort for data collection,
annotation, or pseudo-label generation, which can limit the
widespread deployment of these approaches.
Another line derives spatial guidance from signals avail-
able within the policy or its execution history. These include
execution history [23], spatial affinities encoded by the
vision encoder [24], instruction-guided visual-token prun-
ing [25], adaptive visual-token selection [26], and attention
signals associated with action generation [27], [28]. These
approaches use internal representations, attention patterns, or
historical context as proxies for visual relevance. However,
such proxies may not directly reflect the policy’s dependence
on a particular visual region for action prediction.
ActGaze uses hierarchical counterfactual visual interven-
tions to estimate this dependence from the resulting changes
in action prediction. These estimates provide explicit spatial
supervision without requiring additional spatial annotations
or external grounding models.
B. Interventional Analysis of Action Policies
Input perturbations have long been used to interpret vision
models by modifying parts of an image and observing
changes in model predictions [18], [29]–[31]. This paradigm
has also been applied to sequential decision-making, where
Greydanus et al. [19] use perturbation-based saliency to
analyze the visual behavior of learned policies.
Recent studies use interventions to analyze and improve
VLA policies and world-action models (WAM). Embodied
Interpretability [8] formulates visual-action attribution as an
interventional estimation problem and measures the influence
of visual regions through changes in action prediction, while
AGRA [22] uses causal interventions to reveal sensitivity
to task-irrelevant visual regions. Related work also ap-
plies interventions to internal representations and multimodal
pathways for interpretation, steering, and debiasing [32]–
[35]. In contrast, ActGaze goes beyond post hoc analysis by
converting intervention-derived action relevance into spatial
supervision for on-the-fly gaze learning, thereby improving
VLA policy performance.
III. PROBLEM FORMULATION
We consider a VLA policy πθ for robot manipulation.
At each control step t, the policy takes multi-view RGB
observations It = {Iv
t }V
v=1, the robot state st and a language
instruction l as input, and predicts an H-step action chunk
At = [at, . . . , at+H−1] according to At ∼πθ(· | It, st, l).
However, action prediction alone does not explicitly spec-
ify which visual regions are relevant for generating the
action. We therefore aim to learn a spatial gaze distribution
that captures the action-relevant visual evidence for the
current task. Specifically, we introduce a gaze head Gϕ that
estimates a relevance distribution over visual patches:
ˆgt = Gϕ (It, st, l) ,
V
X
v=1
Pv
X
p=1
ˆgt,v,p = 1,
(1)
where ˆgt denotes the relevance of patch p in camera view v.
The joint normalization over views and patches allows the
gaze predictor to dynamically allocate visual relevance across
different camera views according to their task importance.
The goal of ActGaze is to learn an action-grounded gaze
distribution ˆgt that identifies task-relevant visual regions and
uses this spatial guidance to improve VLA grounding for
high-precision manipulation.
IV. METHODOLOGY
ActGaze introduces a three-stage training approach for
learning action-grounded gaze in VLA policies. In Sec. IV-
A, we describe Policy Initialization, which establishes an
action-capable VLA base policy for subsequent gaze learn-
ing by training on task demonstrations until convergence.
Sec. IV-B presents Action-to-Gaze Distillation, the core
of ActGaze, which uses counterfactual visual interventions


Fig. 2.
Overview of ActGaze. Stage I, Policy Initialization, trains the VLA until convergence to obtain an action-capable policy. Stage II, Action-to-Gaze
Distillation, uses hierarchical counterfactual visual interventions to derive action-grounded spatial supervision and distill it into a multi-view gaze head.
Stage III, Gaze-to-Action Refinement, transfers the learned gaze back to the VLA to refine its action-to-vision attention while preserving the primary
action objective.
Algorithm 1 ActGaze: Three-Stage Training Pipeline
Require: Demonstrations D, VLA policy πθ, gaze head Gϕ
Ensure: Refined VLA policy πθ∗
1: 1. Policy Initialization
2: while πθ not converged do
3:
Update πθ on D with Lact
4: end while
5: πθ →π¯θ
6: 2. Action-to-Gaze Distillation
7: Freeze π¯θ
8: while Gϕ not converged do
9:
Sample observation It
10:
Apply hierarchical visual intervention I(It; S)
11:
Compute action relevance rt(S)
12:
Form gaze supervision from rt(S)
13:
Update Gϕ with Lgaze
14: end while
15: Gϕ →Gϕ∗
16: 3. Gaze-to-Action Refinement
17: Freeze Gϕ∗
18: Initialize πθ from π¯θ
19: while πθ not converged do
20:
Predict gaze ˆgt with Gϕ∗
21:
Extract attention αv
θ,t
22:
Update πθ with Lrefine
23: end while
24: π¯θ →πθ∗
25: return πθ∗
to derive action-grounded spatial targets and distills this
knowledge into a multi-view gaze head. Finally, Sec. IV-C
introduces Gaze-to-Action Refinement, which transfers the
learned gaze back to the VLA to refine its action-to-vision at-
tention while preserving the primary action objective. Algo. 1
and Fig. 2 illustrate the overall training procedure.
A. Policy Initialization
Since ActGaze derives gaze supervision from the policy’s
action response, we first train the VLA policy πθ on action
demonstrations using its standard action-prediction objective
Lact, so that it acquires a reliable action-prediction capability
for action-to-gaze distillation in Sec. IV-B. We consider the
policy sufficiently initialized when its validation action loss
falls below an empirical threshold ϵact. Once this criterion
is satisfied, we then freeze the policy as π¯θ, while the gaze
head Gϕ is not involved in this stage.
It is worth noting that a converged action objective only
ensures behavioral competence but does not guarantee cor-
rect visual grounding. A policy may achieve low action error
by relying on correlated but non-essential visual cues rather
than task-relevant regions, leading to failures under small
changes in object pose, viewpoint, or visual distractions.
Therefore, instead of directly distilling the policy’s existing
attention patterns, we identify action-relevant visual regions
through counterfactual interventions on the frozen policy.
B. Action-to-Gaze Distillation
Given the initialized policy from Sec. IV-A, we freeze
the VLA and train the gaze head Gϕ from scratch. This
stage consists of two steps. First, Counterfactual Visual
Intervention measures how controlled perturbations of vi-
sual evidence affect action prediction, producing action-
grounded relevance signals. Second, Gaze Learning distills
these relevance signals into the gaze head, enabling it to
predict a task-relevant visual distribution from the original
observations.
1) Counterfactual Visual Intervention: Given the frozen
VLA policy, we aim to identify which visual regions are


important for its action prediction. We use counterfactual
visual intervention to refer to a controlled intervention on
a selected visual region while keeping the remaining in-
puts and action-prediction conditions unchanged. We then
compare the policy’s action prediction under the clean and
intervened observations. If intervening on a visual region
causes a larger degradation in action prediction, we regard
that region as more relevant to the action, and vice versa. The
resulting intervention-induced changes therefore provide an
action-grounded supervisory signal for gaze learning. Further
theoretical analysis is provided in the Appendix.
Formally, given a visual region S, let I(It; S) denote the
observation after intervening on the visual evidence in S. We
measure its action relevance as:
rt(S) = Lact
 I(It; S)

−Lact(It),
(2)
where Lact denotes the action-prediction loss evaluated un-
der the same non-visual inputs and action-prediction condi-
tions. A larger rt(S) indicates that intervening on S causes
a larger degradation in action prediction, suggesting that the
corresponding visual evidence is more relevant to the action.
We apply hierarchical visual interventions I at two com-
plementary spatial scales. At the camera level, S spans an
entire camera view, which is masked to estimate its relative
relevance across views. At the patch level, S corresponds
to one of K patch-aligned candidate regions within a view,
which is blurred to estimate its local relevance to action
prediction. The normalized camera-level relevance is then
used to weight the patch-level gaze relevance.
2) Gaze Learning: The visual interventions above provide
action-grounded relevance signals for the sampled regions
S. We distill these sparse relevance signals into a gaze head,
enabling it to learn a coherent gaze distribution directly from
the original observations while remaining computationally
efficient.
For each camera view, the sampled K candidate regions
form a candidate set. We first convert their intervention
responses rt(S) into a relative relevance distribution qt,v by
normalizing the responses within this set. This relative nor-
malization emphasizes the comparative importance among
visual regions while reducing the influence of absolute pre-
diction changes caused by intervention-induced distribution
shifts. The gaze head predicts patch-level logits from the
clean observation, which are aggregated over each candidate
region and normalized to obtain ˆqt,v. By aligning ˆqt,v with
qt,v, the gaze head learns to assign higher responses to
regions that have a larger influence on action prediction.
Since different camera views may contribute differently to
action prediction, we weight the supervision from each view
by its normalized camera-level relevance wt,v. The gaze head
is optimized using the weighted cross-entropy objective:
Lgaze = −
V
X
v=1
wt,v
K
X
k=1
qt,v,k log ˆqt,v,k,
(3)
where P
v wt,v = 1. By sampling only a small set of candi-
date regions at each training step, ActGaze avoids exhaustive
patch-wise interventions, improving computational efficiency
while enabling on-the-fly generation of intervention-derived
supervision. This distills sparse action-grounded relevance
signals into Gϕ, enabling it to directly predict task-relevant
visual attention from the original observations. The learned
gaze is then transferred back to the VLA to refine its visual
attention and action prediction, as described in the next stage.
C. Gaze-to-Action Refinement
Finally, we freeze the learned gaze head and use its
predictions as spatial guidance to refine the VLA policy
initialized from π¯θ. Let αθ,t denote the action-to-vision at-
tention distribution of the VLA policy over all visual patches
across camera views and ˆgt denote the corresponding gaze
prediction. Before computing the refinement objective, both
the action attention and gaze prediction are normalized over
all valid visual patches across the multi-view observations.
We refine the VLA by jointly optimizing the original
action objective and a gaze-guided attention alignment term:
Lrefine = Lact + λalign ∥αθ,t −ˆgt∥2
2 ,
(4)
where λalign controls the strength of gaze-guided attention
alignment. The squared L2 distance provides smooth spatial
regularization, encouraging the policy attention to follow
the learned gaze while Lact preserves its action-prediction
capability. This transfers the learned spatial guidance back
to the VLA and encourages more consistent attention to task-
relevant visual regions during action prediction. Together, the
three stages form a unified training pipeline that transitions
seamlessly from policy initialization to gaze distillation and
policy refinement within a single training run.
V. EXPERIMENT
Our experiments are designed to answer the following
research questions:
Q1. Can the gaze head learn the correct task-relevant
visual regions from counterfactual visual interventions
and effectively transfer them to the VLA policy?
(Sec. V-B)
Q2. Does ActGaze improve real-world high-precision
manipulation compared with the base VLA policy and
existing visual grounding paradigms? (Sec. V-C)
Q3. How do the key design choices of ActGaze contribute
to its performance? (Sec. V-D)
A. Experimental Setup
Task Setup. We evaluate ActGaze on four precision-
demanding manipulation tasks: Straw Insertion, Hose Inser-
tion, LEGO Assembly, and Connector Plug-in, as shown
in Fig. 3. These tasks cover diverse fine-grained interac-
tions, including rigid insertion, deformable object manipu-
lation, assembly, and multi-pin alignment. All tasks require
millimeter- to sub-millimeter-scale geometric precision, as
illustrated by the object dimensions in Fig. 3. We also
introduce positional domain randomization to objects. The
detailed randomization ranges and task specifications are


Fig. 3.
Experimental Setup. The left side illustrates the robot platform and object dimensions, while the right side presents the four precision manipulation
tasks: Straw Insertion, Hose Insertion, LEGO Assembly and Connector Plug-in.
provided in Appendix. For brevity, we refer to these tasks as
Straw, Hose, LEGO, and Connector in the following tables.
Implementation Details. We adopt π0.5 [2] as the base
VLA policy and use a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) as
the gaze head Gϕ. For policy initialization, we set the
convergence threshold ϵact = 0.002. During gaze-to-action
refinement in Eq. 4, we apply PCGrad [36] to mitigate
gradient conflicts between the action-prediction and gaze-
alignment objectives. For computational efficiency, we set
each candidate region introduced in Sec. IV-B as a 2 × 2
block of four patches on the 16 × 16 visual patch grid and
sample only K = 2 candidates per camera view at each
training step. All policies are deployed on a Rainbow RB-
Y1 robot. Visual observations are captured by two wrist-
mounted Intel RealSense D405 cameras for local views and
one head-mounted ZED X Mini camera for a global view of
the workspace. Policy training is conducted on eight NVIDIA
RTX 5880 GPUs. For each task, all methods are trained using
the same 200 expert demonstrations, batch size, and number
of training steps to provide a fair comparison. ActGaze and
all baselines reported in the same table are also evaluated
within the same experimental session to reduce variations in
environmental and robot conditions.
B. Action-Grounded Gaze Learning and Transfer (Q1)
We first examine whether counterfactual visual interven-
tion enables ActGaze to identify task-relevant visual regions
and whether the learned spatial guidance can be effectively
transferred back to the VLA policy.
Evaluation Protocol. We manually annotate task-relevant
regions with bounding boxes on 200 sparsely sampled frames
from each camera view of four tasks, collected across mul-
tiple episodes rather than from consecutive video frames.
These annotations are used solely as ground-truth regions
for evaluation and are never exposed to ActGaze during
TABLE I
TASK-RELEVANT REGION ALIGNMENT OF THE BASE POLICY
ATTENTION, LEARNED GAZE, AND REFINED POLICY ATTENTION,
MEASURED BY GROUND-TRUTH ALIGNMENT SCORE SGT (%).
Method
Straw
Hose
LEGO
Connector
Avg. (↑)
π0.5 Action Attn.
14.0
12.0
21.2
17.9
16.3
ActGaze (Gaze Head)
42.5
33.4
46.7
38.7
40.3
ActGaze (Action Attn.)
37.3
30.7
38.0
36.9
35.7
training. The annotated regions cover the relevant grasping
region and the target mating region. Examples can be found
in the Appendix. We quantify spatial grounding using the
Ground-Truth Alignment Score SGT. The score measures the
probability mass assigned to annotated task-relevant regions:
SGT(Z) = 1
N
N
X
t=1
V
X
v=1
Pv
X
p=1
zt,v,pmt,v,p,
(5)
where Z = {zt}N
t=1 denotes the sequence of normalized
spatial maps, and zt,v,p represents the relevance assigned to
patch p in camera view v at time step t. The binary mask
mt,v,p ∈{0, 1} indicates whether the corresponding patch
belongs to the annotated task-relevant region.
We evaluate three spatial maps. π0.5 Action Attn. de-
notes the action-to-vision attention of the base VLA policy.
ActGaze (Gaze Head) corresponds to the gaze prediction
ˆgt from gaze head, which evaluates whether counterfac-
tual supervision successfully identifies task-relevant regions.
ActGaze (Action Attn.) corresponds to αθ,t after gaze-
to-action refinement, which evaluates whether the learned
spatial guidance is transferred back to the VLA policy.
Results. As shown in Table I, the action attention of the
base π0.5 policy achieves an average GT Alignment Score of
only 16.3%. In contrast, the learned gaze reaches 40.3%, with


Fig. 4.
Qualitative Comparison of Spatial Maps. The learned gaze
concentrates on task-relevant regions, and the refined policy attention shifts
toward similar regions.
TABLE II
REAL-WORLD SUCCESS RATES ON FOUR HIGH-PRECISION
MANIPULATION TASKS COMPARING WITH BASE POLICY π0.5.
Method
Straw
Hose
LEGO
Connector
Avg. (↑)
π0.5
37/50
34/50
44/50
39/50
77.0%
ActGaze
44/50
46/50
48/50
45/50
91.5%
consistent improvements across all four tasks. This substan-
tial improvement shows that counterfactual visual interven-
tion provides spatial information that is substantially more
aligned with task-relevant regions than the policy’s original
attention. More importantly, after gaze-to-action refinement,
the VLA’s action attention reaches 35.7%, more than twice
the alignment score of the base policy. This demonstrates that
the task-relevant spatial guidance learned by the gaze head
can be effectively transferred back to the VLA during policy
refinement. Figure 4 provides qualitative results consistent
with these quantitative findings. Compared with the dispersed
attention of the base policy, the learned gaze concentrates
more strongly on task-relevant regions, while the refined
policy attention shifts toward similar regions. Overall, this
experiment shows that ActGaze successfully learns task-
relevant gaze from counterfactual visual interventions and
transfers this spatial knowledge back to the VLA policy.
C. Real-World High-Precision Manipulation (Q2)
We next evaluate whether the improved visual ground-
ing learned by ActGaze translates into better real-world
high-precision manipulation performance. We first compare
ActGaze with the base π0.5 policy on all four tasks, and then
compare different visual grounding paradigms that introduce
auxiliary spatial supervision under the same π0.5 backbone.
Comparison with the Base Policy. We first establish
a controlled comparison with the base π0.5 policy. Both
methods use comparable numbers of policy optimization
TABLE III
REAL-WORLD SUCCESS RATES ON TWO REPRESENTATIVE TASKS
COMPARING WITH OTHER VISUAL GROUNDING PARADIGMS.
Method
Hose
Connector
Avg. (↑)
CoT Grounding
10/20
12/20
55.0%
Implicit Grounding
13/20
12/20
62.5%
ActGaze
18/20
17/20
87.5%
steps, and for each method we select the best checkpoint
from a near-convergence window using the same offline
validation protocol. The selected policies are then evaluated
under identical real-world conditions.
As shown in Table II, ActGaze consistently improves
success rates across all four high-precision tasks, increas-
ing the average performance from 77.0% to 91.5%. The
largest improvement is observed on Hose insertion, where
the success rate increases from 68.0% to 92.0%. We observe
that this task contains strong specular reflections from the
metal plate around the insertion opening, which can easily
attract irrelevant visual attention. The larger gain on this
task suggests that the action-grounded spatial guidance may
help reduce sensitivity to such background distractions. We
further examine this behavior under controlled visual dis-
tractors in the Appendix. These results demonstrate that the
visual grounding improvements observed in Sec. V-B are not
merely representational, but translate into substantial gains in
real-world high-precision manipulation.
Comparison with Visual Grounding Paradigms. To fur-
ther evaluate the effectiveness of ActGaze in high-precision
manipulation, we select two competitive visual grounding
paradigms: CoT Grounding [21] and Implicit Grounding [9].
• CoT Grounding. Following prior Chain-of-Thought
grounding approaches [21], [37], CoT Grounding ex-
plicitly predicts the bounding-box coordinates of the
task-relevant region as an intermediate grounding step
prior to action sequence, encouraging the VLA to
localize the target region before action prediction.
• Implicit Grounding. Following ReconVLA [9], Im-
plicit Grounding introduces an auxiliary reconstruction
objective that reconstructs the task-relevant image crop
during the training, encouraging the policy to implicitly
encode where task-relevant visual information lies.
For a fair comparison, CoT Grounding, Implicit Ground-
ing, and ActGaze all use the same VLA backbone and the
same 200 expert demonstrations. The external bounding-
box supervision required by CoT Grounding and Implicit
Grounding is generated using Grounding-DINO [38].
As shown in Table III, ActGaze achieves an average suc-
cess rate of 87.5%, outperforming CoT Grounding at 55.0%
and Implicit Grounding at 62.5% on both Hose Insertion and
Connector Plug-in. Notably, the competing paradigms rely
on external spatial supervision, whereas ActGaze derives its
spatial guidance directly from action demonstrations.
Several factors may explain this difference. Spatial labels
generated by external vision foundation models can contain


TABLE IV
ABLATION STUDY OF THE KEY DESIGN CHOICES.
Method
Straw
LEGO
Avg. (↑)
w/o CF Supervision
8/20
7/20
37.5%
w/o Staged Training
13/20
12/20
62.5%
ActGaze
19/20
18/20
92.5%
localization errors or biases and may remain too coarse
for high-precision manipulation, where critical cues such
as openings, contact points, and mating interfaces often
occupy only a small fraction of the grounded region. More
fundamentally, high-precision manipulation often depends on
the coupling between interacting objects, and the relevant
visual region changes with the manipulation phase [39]. The
policy may need to attend to the manipulated object during
pre-grasping, but shift toward the target opening or mating
interface during alignment and insertion. External grounding
mainly provides semantic object-level relevance, whereas
ActGaze discovers relevance through its effect on the action
objective. This makes the learned guidance naturally action-
conditioned and phase-dependent, allowing it to focus on the
visual evidence most critical to the current control step.
D. Ablation Study of Key Design Choices (Q3)
Finally, we investigate the key design choices underly-
ing ActGaze. We first examine the role of counterfactual
supervision in learning task-relevant gaze. We then study the
importance of staged training for stabilizing gaze learning.
Finally, we evaluate whether iterative refinement could pro-
vide significant gains beyond the first round.
Counterfactual
Supervision. We preserve the same
model architecture and training stages as ActGaze, but
remove the counterfactual supervision and train the gaze
head only through the action objective in the Stage II
in this ablation study. In this setting, the predicted gaze
becomes nearly uniform over the visual field, mainly because
the converged action policy produces limited action loss
variation with respect to visual changes, resulting in weak
gradients for gaze head to learn spatial relevance. Moreover,
aligning action attention with this nearly uniform target may
damage the useful spatial knowledge already present in the
initialized policy, impairing action prediction. As a result, the
average success rate drops to 37.5%, compared with 92.5%
for ActGaze in the Straw Insertion and LEGO Assembly
tasks as shown in Table IV. This suggests that the benefit
of ActGaze comes not from simply introducing a gaze head,
but from explicitly converting action sensitivity into spatial
supervision through counterfactual interventions.
Staged Training. We remove the three-stage training
pipeline and jointly train the gaze head and VLA policy with
both counterfactual supervision and the action objective from
the beginning. We observe that the predicted gaze continu-
ously drifts during training and does not consistently concen-
trate on task-relevant regions. This is because the VLA policy
has not yet learned to predict actions reliably during early
Fig. 5.
Iterative Refinement Result. We plot SGT and real-world
success rate across multiple training rounds in LEGO Assembly. Most
improvements are achieved in the first round, while later rounds yield only
marginal improvements.
training, resulting in unreliable counterfactual supervision
for gaze learning. Accordingly, this variant achieves an
average success rate of only 62.5%, compared with 92.5%
for ActGaze with staged training in Straw Insertion and
LEGO Assembly tasks, as shown in Table IV. These results
highlight the need for VLA initialization to establish a stable
supervisory signal for gaze learning. Although convergence
in Stage I does not necessarily guarantee strong real-world
performance, it provides a stable action-prediction reference
that is essential for subsequent gaze learning in our pipeline.
Iterative Refinement. We investigate whether iterative
refinement provides further improvements. Starting from the
policy obtained in the previous round, we repeat action-
to-gaze distillation and gaze-to-action refinement for four
rounds in LEGO Assembly task. We report SGT for both
predicted gaze and action attention, along with the real-world
success rate. As shown in Fig. 5, the success rate increases
from 78% at Round 0 to 90% at Round 1, remains at 90%
at Round 2, and reaches 92% at Rounds 3–4. Ground-Truth
Alignment Score SGT likewise improves substantially in the
first round, with only marginal gains thereafter, consistent
with the success-rate trend. This pattern suggests the gain
from iterative refinement is not significant, which may result
from the limitation of performance upper bound and bias
from initial model. We therefore use one round of refinement
to balance the gain and the computational cost.
VI. CONCLUSION AND LIMITATIONS
We introduced ActGaze, an action-grounded gaze learning
approach that converts intervention-induced changes in ac-
tion prediction into explicit spatial supervision. Experiments
on four real-world high-precision manipulation tasks demon-
strate consistently improved visual attention and task perfor-
mance without requiring external annotations or grounding
models for supervision. The framework is also potentially
applicable to a broad class of visuomotor policies.


However, ActGaze has several limitations. First, it per-
forms counterfactual analysis at the visual level rather than
establishing causal relationships in the physical environment.
Intervention responses may also be affected by perturbation-
induced distribution shifts and should therefore be interpreted
as relevance estimates rather than strong causal effects.
Second, because spatial supervision is derived from the initial
policy, gaze learning remains constrained by its existing
knowledge and biases. Such biases cannot be fully elimi-
nated through distillation and may persist across refinement
rounds, limiting further performance gains. Despite these
limitations, the observed improvements support the practical
effectiveness of ActGaze. We hope this work can inspire
further exploration of self-evolving learning-based policies.
APPENDIX
This appendix complements the main paper with addi-
tional theoretical motivation, implementation details, and
evaluation results for ActGaze. We first explain why the
action-loss change induced by counterfactual visual inter-
ventions provides a principled signal for identifying action-
relevant regions (Sec. A). We then describe the ground-truth
region annotation protocol used in our evaluation (Sec. B)
and provide detailed task specifications and randomization
settings to facilitate reproducibility (Sec. C). Finally, we
present additional experiments that evaluate the robustness
of ActGaze under visual distractors (Sec. D).
A. Theoretical Analysis of Counterfactual Visual Interven-
tion
The main paper introduces counterfactual visual interven-
tion as a practical way to estimate which visual regions
are relevant to action prediction. Here, we provide addi-
tional theoretical motivation for this design by connecting
intervention-induced loss changes to the predictive value of
visual evidence.
a) Predictive value under ideal information removal.:
Let X denote the complete visual observation, X−S the
visual observation with the information in region S removed,
C all remaining prediction conditions, and Y the prediction
target.
Under squared-error loss, the optimal predictor with access
to the full visual observation is
ˆY = E[Y | X, C],
(6)
while the optimal predictor without access to region S is
ˆY −S = E[Y | X−S, C].
(7)
We define the predictive value of region S as the increase
in expected prediction loss when the information in S is
unavailable:
V(S) = E
h
∥Y −ˆY −S∥2
2
i
−E
h
∥Y −ˆY ∥2
2
i
.
(8)
Intuitively, V(S) measures how much prediction perfor-
mance is lost when the visual evidence in S is removed.
Proposition 1. The predictive value defined above satisfies
V(S) = E
h
∥ˆY −ˆY −S∥2
2
i
≥0.
(9)
Proof. We first decompose the prediction error without
region S as
Y −ˆY −S = (Y −ˆY ) + ( ˆY −ˆY −S).
(10)
Taking the squared norm and expectation gives
E
h
∥Y −ˆY −S∥2
2
i
= E
h
∥Y −ˆY ∥2
2
i
+ E
h
∥ˆY −ˆY −S∥2
2
i
+ 2E
h
(Y −ˆY )⊤( ˆY −ˆY −S)
i
.
(11)
The last term is zero. Since ˆY −ˆY −S is determined by
the observed inputs X and C,
E
h
(Y −ˆY )⊤( ˆY −ˆY −S)
i
= E
h
( ˆY −ˆY −S)⊤E[Y −ˆY | X, C]
i
= 0,
(12)
because
E[Y −ˆY | X, C] = 0.
(13)
Therefore,
E
h
∥Y −ˆY −S∥2
2
i
= E
h
∥Y −ˆY ∥2
2
i
+ E
h
∥ˆY −ˆY −S∥2
2
i
.
(14)
Substituting this result into Eq. 8 yields Eq. 9. Since a
squared norm is always non-negative, V(S) ≥0.
Equation 9 provides a direct interpretation of visual rel-
evance. If removing region S does not change the optimal
prediction, then ˆY = ˆY −S and V(S) = 0. In contrast, if the
information in S substantially affects the prediction, the two
predictors differ more strongly and V(S) becomes larger.
Importantly, this predictive value is context-dependent.
Information from other visual regions or camera views may
compensate for the removal of S. Therefore, the relevance of
a region is defined relative to the remaining visual context,
rather than being an intrinsic property of the region alone.
b) From ideal information removal to ActGaze.: The
ideal quantity V(S) requires prediction under the true con-
ditional distribution with region S unavailable, which is
generally intractable for a learned VLA policy. ActGaze
therefore uses a practical single-policy approximation. Let
I(I; S) denote the observation obtained by suppressing the
visual evidence in S. We compute
r(S) = Lact (I(I; S)) −Lact(I),
(15)
where the initialized policy is kept fixed.
This construction approximates the ideal comparison in
two ways. First, the initialized policy serves as an approxi-
mation to the full-information predictor. Second, visual inter-
vention approximates the prediction that would be obtained if
the information contained in S were unavailable. Under these
approximations, a larger r(S) suggests that the fixed policy
relies more strongly on the corresponding visual evidence
for predicting the demonstrated action.


Fig. 6.
Examples of Task-Relevant Region Annotations. The annotations
indicate localized visual regions containing evidence considered relevant to
the current manipulation phase. The relevant region changes as the task
progresses, e.g., from the manipulated object or grasping region during
acquisition to the target opening or mating interface during alignment and
insertion. Camera views that do not provide useful visual evidence for the
current action are left unannotated.
c) Connection to flow matching.: For the flow-matching
action head used in our experiments, the prediction target Y
corresponds to the target velocity, and the action objective
is a squared regression loss. The setting in Proposition 1
therefore directly matches the form of the flow-matching
training objective.
When comparing the clean and intervened observations,
we keep the demonstrated action, robot state, language
instruction, sampled flow time, noise, noisy action, and target
velocity unchanged. Thus, the two losses differ only in
the selected visual evidence, reducing stochastic variation
unrelated to the intervention.
d) Scope of the interpretation.: The practical score
r(S) should not be interpreted as an unbiased estimate of
V(S) or as a physical causal effect. Visual suppression
through masking or blurring only approximates ideal in-
formation removal and may introduce distribution shifts.
In addition, the resulting relevance estimate inherits the
knowledge and biases of the initialized policy.
We therefore interpret r(S) as a policy-level estimate of
relative predictive relevance. ActGaze uses these intervention
responses as spatial supervision for gaze learning, while the
empirical improvements in visual alignment and manipula-
tion performance support their practical utility.
B. Ground-Truth Region Annotation
The ground-truth task-relevant regions are used only
for evaluating spatial alignment and are never exposed to
ActGaze during training. Representative examples are shown
in Fig. 6.
Four annotators participated in the annotation process
following a shared protocol. For each frame and camera
view, annotators were instructed to mark a localized region
containing the visual evidence most relevant to the current
manipulation step, rather than broadly covering the entire
object or workspace.
The annotations are phase-dependent. During object ac-
quisition, the relevant region typically corresponds to the
manipulated object or its local grasping area. During align-
ment and insertion, the annotation shifts toward visual cues
that are more directly related to precise interaction, such as
the target opening, mating interface, or contact region. If
a camera view does not contain useful visual evidence for
the current action, that view is left unannotated instead of
assigning an arbitrary region.
These annotations provide the reference regions used to
compute the Ground-Truth Alignment Score SGT reported
in the main paper.
C. Task Specifications
We evaluate ActGaze on four precision-demanding ma-
nipulation tasks: Straw Insertion, Hose Insertion, LEGO As-
sembly, and Connector Plug-in. Together, these tasks cover
rigid insertion, deformable-object manipulation, assembly,
and multi-pin alignment. Their detailed specifications and
randomization settings are described below.
• Straw Insertion. The robot grasps an 11.8 mm-wide
straw and inserts it into a 13.8 mm-wide opening on a
cup. The cup position is randomized within a 10 cm ×
10 cm workspace to evaluate positional generalization.
• Hose Insertion. The robot grasps a 4.6 mm-wide com-
pliant refrigerator drainage hose and inserts it into a
5.0 mm-wide opening. In addition to the tight insertion
tolerance, deformation of the hose introduces further
geometric variation during manipulation. The opening
base is translated by up to 10 cm and rotated by up to
15◦from its nominal pose.
• LEGO Assembly. The robot grasps an eight-hole yel-
low LEGO brick and assembles it onto an orange mating
brick. Each mating hole is 9.3 mm wide, and the tight
fit requires accurate alignment between the two bricks.
The yellow brick is randomized within a 5 cm × 5 cm
workspace with rotations of up to ±30◦, while the
orange mating brick is randomized within a 15 cm ×
15 cm workspace.
• Connector Plug-in. The robot grasps a 24-pin ATX
connector and inserts it into the corresponding mother-
board socket. The clearance between the connector and
socket is within 0.4 mm, and simultaneous alignment
of multiple pins makes the task particularly sensitive
to small pose errors. The motherboard position is ran-
domized by approximately 3 cm, while the connector
position is randomized over a 10 cm horizontal range.
Overall, these tasks provide diverse test cases for evaluating
ActGaze under varying geometric precision, object proper-
ties, and spatial randomization.


Fig. 7.
Controlled Visual Variations. Left: visual clutter introduced
by additional LEGO pieces around the manipulation region. Right: strong
lighting variation introduced by an external light source.
TABLE V
ROBUSTNESS EVALUATION ON LEGO ASSEMBLY UNDER CONTROLLED
VISUAL VARIATIONS.
Method
Clean
Clutter
Lighting
π0.5
18/20
13/20
11/20
ActGaze
19/20
15/20
11/20
D. Robustness to Visual Distractors
We further evaluate whether the task-relevant gaze learned
by ActGaze improves robustness to visual perturbations.
We conduct this study on LEGO Assembly under three
conditions: the original clean setting, additional visual clutter,
and strong lighting variation.
For the visual-clutter condition, multiple LEGO pieces of
different colors are randomly placed around the target orange
LEGO brick, introducing task-irrelevant objects near the
manipulation region. For the lighting condition, a high-power
external light source is introduced to produce a substantial
global appearance change. Representative examples of these
two conditions are shown in Fig. 7.
As shown in Table V, both methods achieve similar
performance in the clean setting, while ActGaze improves
the success rate under visual clutter from 13/20 to 15/20.
This result suggests that guiding the policy toward task-
relevant visual regions can reduce its sensitivity to nearby
task-irrelevant content.
Under strong lighting variation, both methods achieve
11/20, and no clear improvement is observed with ActGaze.
Unlike local visual clutter, lighting variation affects the
appearance of the entire observation, including the task-
relevant regions themselves. This result suggests that the
robustness benefit of ActGaze is more pronounced for spatial
distractors than for global appearance changes.
REFERENCES
[1] K. Black, N. Brown, D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn,
N. Fusai, L. Groom, K. Hausman, B. Ichter et al., “π0: A Vision-
Language-Action Flow Model for General Robot Control,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[2] Physical Intelligence, K. Black, N. Brown, J. Darpinian, K. Dhabalia,
D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn, N. Fusai et al., “π0.5:
A Vision-Language-Action Model with Open-World Generalization,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.
[3] M. J. Kim, K. Pertsch, S. Karamcheti, T. Xiao, A. Balakrishna,
S. Nair, R. Rafailov, E. Foster, G. Lam, P. Sanketi et al., “Open-
vla: An open-source vision-language-action model,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.09246, 2024.
[4] B. Zitkovich, T. Yu, S. Xu, P. Xu, T. Xiao, F. Xia, J. Wu, P. Wohlhart,
S. Welker, A. Wahid et al., “Rt-2: Vision-language-action models
transfer web knowledge to robotic control,” in Proceedings of the 7th
Conference on Robot Learning, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, vol. 229, 2023, pp. 2165–2183.
[5] J. Zhu, Z. Yan, Y. Xiao, J. Guo, C. Tie, X. Cao, Y. Zheng, and
L. Shao, “Shapeforce: Low-cost soft robotic wrist for contact-rich
manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.19955, 2025.
[6] C. Tie, S. Sun, J. Zhu, Y. Liu, J. Guo, Y. Hu, H. Chen, J. Chen, R. Wu,
and L. Shao, “Manual2skill: Learning to read manuals and acquire
robotic skills for furniture assembly using vision-language models,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.10090, 2025.
[7] C. Tie, S. Sun, Y. Lin, Y. Wang, Z. Li, Z. Zhong, J. Zhu, Y. Pang,
H. Chen, J. Chen et al., “Manual2skill++: Connector-aware general
robotic assembly from instruction manuals via vision-language mod-
els,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.16344, 2025.
[8] H. Zhang, M. Xu, A. Dhafer, S. Yue, H. Dong, and Z. D. Hao, “Em-
bodied interpretability: Linking causal understanding to generalization
in vision-language-action models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.00321,
2026.
[9] W. Song, Z. Zhou, H. Zhao, J. Chen, P. Ding, H. Yan, Y. Huang,
F. Tang, D. Wang, and H. Li, “Reconvla: Reconstructive vision-
language-action model as effective robot perceiver,” in Proceedings
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 40, no. 22,
2026, pp. 18 549–18 557.
[10] K. Vo, T. Hanyu, Y. Ikebe, T. Thang Pham, N. Chung, M. Nhat Vu,
D.
N.
H.
Minh,
A.
Nguyen,
A.
Gunderman,
C.
Rainwater
et al., “Clutter-resistant vision-language-action models through object-
centric and geometry grounding,” arXiv e-prints, pp. arXiv–2512,
2025.
[11] A. Pani and Y. Yang, “Gaze-regularized vision-language-action models
for robotic manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.23202, 2026.
[12] C. Li, K. Xiong, Y. Xu, L. Qian, Y. Wang, and W. Zhu, “Gazevla:
Learning human intention for robotic manipulation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2604.22615, 2026.
[13] K. Zuo, G. Li, B. Lyu, Y. Lu, B. Ma, S. Han, X. Zhou, X. Yuan,
C. Zhou, J. Bai et al., “Gaze2act: Gaze-conditioned vision-language-
action policies for interactive robot manipulation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2605.30282, 2026.
[14] X. Sun, Y. Zhuang, M. S. L. Negrete, M.-V. Coldea, C. Liang,
H. Zhang, C. Liu, Z. Zeng, S. Li, Q. Wang et al., “Artificial foveated
perception for mitigating shortcut learning in robotic foundation
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.10655, 2026.
[15] M. Murooka, R. Nakajo, K. Shirai, T. Motoda, H. Oh, R. Hanai,
and Y. Domae, “Guidedattention: Interpretable and correctable visual
attention for ood-robust robot manipulation via imitation learning,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.21049, 2026.
[16] T. Lips, M. Moletta, M. C. Welle, D. Kragic et al., “On the generaliza-
tion capabilities, design choices and limitations of keypoint imitation
learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.26649, 2026.
[17] J. Pearl, “Causal inference in statistics: An overview,” Statistics
Surveys, vol. 3, pp. 96–146, 2009.
[18] M. D. Zeiler and R. Fergus, “Visualizing and understanding con-
volutional networks,” in European Conference on Computer Vision.
Springer, 2014, pp. 818–833.
[19] S. Greydanus, A. Koul, J. Dodge, and A. Fern, “Visualizing and
understanding atari agents,” in Proceedings of the 35th International
Conference on Machine Learning, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learn-
ing Research, vol. 80, 2018, pp. 1792–1801.
[20] J. Guo, J. Zhu, S. Lin, and F. Shi, “Momentum prediction for tennis
matches based on counter-factual analysis and multi-lgbm,” in 2024
7th International Conference on Advanced Algorithms and Control
Engineering (ICAACE).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 781–785.
[21] M. Zawalski, W. Chen, K. Pertsch, O. Mees, C. Finn, and S. Levine,
“Robotic control via embodied chain-of-thought reasoning,” in Pro-
ceedings of The 8th Conference on Robot Learning, ser. Proceedings
of Machine Learning Research, vol. 270.
PMLR, 2024, pp. 3157–
3181.
[22] L. Qiu, Y. Li, Y. Chen, Y. Ge, Y. Ge, and X. Liu, “Making foresight
actionable: Repurposing representation alignment in world action
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.12217, 2026.


[23] L. Xiao, J. Li, J. Gao, F. Ye, Y. Jin, J. Qian, J. Zhang, Y. Wu, and X. Yu,
“Ava-vla: Improving vision-language-action models with active visual
attention,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2026, pp. 13 453–13 463.
[24] J. Park, K. Ranasinghe, J. Jang, C. Mata, Y. S. Jang, and M. S. Ryoo,
“Ivra: Improving visual-token relations for robot action policy with
training-free hint-based guidance,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.16207,
2026.
[25] W. Li, R. Zhang, R. Shao, Z. Fang, K. Zhou, Z. Tian, and L. Nie,
“Semanticvla: Semantic-aligned sparsification and enhancement for
efficient robotic manipulation,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference
on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 40, no. 22, 2026, pp. 18 397–18 405.
[26] Y. Zhang, W. Yuan, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, and J. Wan, “Focusvla:
Focused visual utilization for vision-language-action models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2603.28740, 2026.
[27] Z. Liu, Y. Chen, H. Cai, T. Lin, S. Yang, Z. Liu, and B. Zhao, “Vla-
pruner: Temporal-aware dual-level visual token pruning for efficient
vision-language-action inference,” arXiv e-prints, pp. arXiv–2511,
2025.
[28] J. Cui, Y. Hu, X. Long, L. Li, B. Zhao, and P. Ren, “Look where it
matters: Adaptive visual refinement for vision-language-action mod-
els,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2608.02197, 2026.
[29] R. C. Fong and A. Vedaldi, “Interpretable explanations of black boxes
by meaningful perturbation,” in 2017 IEEE international conference
on computer vision (ICCV).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 3449–3457.
[30] V. Petsiuk, A. Das, and K. Saenko, “Rise: randomized input sam-
pling for explanation of black-box models (2018),” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1806.07421, 2018.
[31] J. Xing, T. Nagata, X. Zou, E. Neftci, and J. L. Krichmar, “Achieving
efficient interpretability of reinforcement learning via policy distilla-
tion and selective input gradient regularization,” Neural Networks, vol.
161, pp. 228–241, 2023.
[32] B. H¨aon, K. C. Stocking, I. Chuang, and C. Tomlin, “Mechanistic
interpretability for steering vision-language-action models,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 9th Conference on Robot Learning, ser. Proceedings
of Machine Learning Research, vol. 305, 2025, pp. 2743–2762.
[33] H. Shi, X. Ren, Y. Zhang, Q. Zhang, J. Hu, H. Shan, H. Dong, J. Lu,
Y. Chen, Y. Zhang, Y. Dai, and X. Ju, “Vla-trace: Diagnosing vision-
language-action models through representation and behavior tracing,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.30117, 2026.
[34] Y. Fang, Y. Feng, D. Jing, J. Liu, Y. Yang, Z. Wei, D. Szafir, and
M. Ding, “When vision overrides language: Evaluating and mitigating
counterfactual failures in vlas,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.17659,
2026.
[35] Y. Zhang, Y. Wu, H. Duan, and J. Han, “Cofactvla: Deconfounding
vision-language-action models via counterfactual intervention,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2608.04396, 2026.
[36] T. Yu, S. Kumar, A. Gupta, S. Levine, K. Hausman, and C. Finn, “Gra-
dient surgery for multi-task learning,” Advances in neural information
processing systems, vol. 33, pp. 5824–5836, 2020.
[37] S. Deng, M. Yan, S. Wei, H. Ma, Y. Yang, J. Chen, Z. Zhang,
T. Yang, X. Zhang, H. Cui, Z. Zhang, and H. Wang, “Graspvla: a
grasping foundation model pre-trained on billion-scale synthetic action
data,” in Proceedings of The 9th Conference on Robot Learning, ser.
Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, vol. 305.
PMLR, 2025,
pp. 1004–1029.
[38] S. Liu, Z. Zeng, T. Ren, F. Li, H. Zhang, J. Yang, C. Li,
J. Yang, H. Su, J. Zhu et al., “Grounding dino: Marrying dino with
grounded pre-training for open-set object detection,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.05499, 2023.
[39] X. Chen, Z. Li, Z. Zhou, H. Chen, C. Wang, and X. Zhu, “Pointing-
vla: Typed spatial grounding interfaces for vision-language-action
manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2608.23138, 2026.
