KnowDemo: Knowledge-Guided Robot Demonstration Generation from
Human Videos
Zhiyuan Gao1, Yanxiang Zhan1, Mohammad Khoshnazar1, Jeroen Schäfer1, and Michael Beetz1,2
1University of Bremen
2Robotics Institute Germany (RIG)
Abstract— Learning robot manipulation policies typically
requires substantial demonstration data, which are costly to
collect on real robots. Recent methods generate robot demon-
strations from human videos by adapting recovered motion
and validating the resulting trajectories in simulation. However,
methods centered on motion-reference adaptation can limit
behavioral diversity by retaining the demonstrated contact
strategies and subtask orders, while insufficient understanding
of task requirements and scene relations can reduce demon-
stration generation efficiency by generating invalid candidates.
To address these limitations, we propose KNOWDEMO, a
framework that uses structured manipulation knowledge from
human videos to generate diverse robot demonstrations for
a target workspace. To distinguish task requirements from
demonstration-specific choices, we develop a knowledge ex-
traction and reasoning module based on a vision-language
model (VLM) that associates object and action descriptions
with inferred task conditions, demonstration references, and
permissible execution variations. To translate this knowledge
into executable demonstrations, we resolve the descriptions
against target-scene entities and geometry to guide candidate
generation and screening before motion planning and simula-
tion. The resulting demonstrations exhibit multimodal behavior
through alternative contact strategies and valid subtask orders,
with structured execution labels. Experiments demonstrate
additional verified execution modes beyond a reference-only
configuration and improved candidate planning success through
task-guided grasp sampling. To validate the generated data
for policy learning, we fine-tune the pretrained π0.5 model
on simulation data, achieving sim-to-real transfer across three
tasks. Project page: https://zhiyuan-gao.github.io/knowdemo/.
I. INTRODUCTION
Robot demonstration datasets support learning manipula-
tion policies across tasks and environments [1], [2]. How-
ever, real-robot demonstration collection remains costly [3],
[4]. Human videos offer accessible task knowledge and
motion evidence for generating robot demonstrations [5],
[6], [7]. Turning these videos into robot training data re-
quires generating observations and actions for the target
robot and its workspace. Video-to-robot approaches extract
task plans or recover motion to guide execution [8], [9],
[10]. Demonstration-generation methods expand datasets by
adapting reference motions to new object poses and ge-
ometries [3], [11]. Task and scene knowledge further guide
execution by grounding abstract action descriptions in the
current environment [12] and incorporating semantic and
Email addresses, in author order: gao@uni-bremen.de, yanxiang@uni-
bremen.de,
khoshnam@uni-bremen.de,
jeroen.schaefer@uni-bremen.de,
and beetz@informatik.uni-bremen.de.
geometric constraints into motion planning [11], [13], [14].
Simulation subsequently tests the resulting trajectories for
physical feasibility [10], [15]. These efforts extend demon-
stration generation across scene and object variations.
However, adapting recovered object motions to new scene
configurations can retain the demonstrated contact strategy
and subtask order. The resulting data may cover different
object configurations while capturing only a limited range
of ways to complete the task. A single task can admit
multimodal behavior [16], [17], [18]. For example, the person
in the video may close a drawer by holding its handle,
whereas a robot could achieve the same goal by pushing the
front panel. Generating such alternative behaviors requires
distinguishing essential task conditions from demonstration-
specific choices.
Candidate generation must also account for subsequent
subtasks and target-scene geometry. A grasp that permits
object pickup may obstruct later placement or gripper with-
drawal. Ignoring these requirements can lead to failed plan-
ning attempts. Grounding task knowledge in the target scene
allows these requirements to guide candidate generation
before motion planning and simulation.
To address these challenges, we propose KNOWDEMO, a
framework that uses structured manipulation knowledge from
human videos to generate diverse robot demonstrations for a
target workspace (Fig. 1). To distinguish task requirements
from demonstration-specific choices, our knowledge extrac-
tion and reasoning module based on a vision-language model
(VLM) associates structured object and action descriptions
with inferred task conditions, observed contacts and mo-
tions, and permissible execution variations. To translate this
knowledge into executable demonstrations, we resolve the
descriptions against target-scene entities and geometry, using
the grounded task conditions to guide candidate sampling
and screening before motion planning and simulation. Each
accepted demonstration retains the task instruction inferred
from the video and structured execution labels, allowing data
to be organized and selected by execution mode. The result-
ing simulation demonstrations support policy fine-tuning for
deployment in the target workspace. We quantify behavioral
diversity by comparing the number of verified execution
modes with a reference-only configuration, supported by
examples of alternative contact strategies and subtask orders
from the same human video. A shared-backend ablation mea-
sures the effect of task-guided grasp sampling on candidate
arXiv:2609.21229v1  [cs.RO]  18 Sep 2026


(a) Inputs
(b) Knowledge
reasoning
(c) Knowledge-guided
generation
(d) Validation
and learning
Human video
Pick
Place
Close
Real workspace
Digital twin
Physics scene
VLM video understanding
Task semantics and motion
Manipulation knowledge
Task goal (inferred)
Put the banana in the open
drawer, then close it.
Required conditions
Banana inside
Drawer closed
Insert → withdraw → close
Video reference
Hold handle to close
Allowed alternatives
Handle → grasp
Front panel → push
Target-scene grounding
Sim + real background
Banana
Lower
drawer
Handle
Front panel
Candidate generation
Example: drawer closure
Grasp handle
and push
Push front
panel
Task-guided
execution selection
Motion planning
cuRobo
Simulation validation
Isaac Sim
Shared task conditions
Demonstrations
Observations · actions
Task · execution labels
Policy learning
Real-world deployment
Fig. 1.
Overview of KNOWDEMO. (a) Pick, place, and close frames from a human demonstration, the target workspace, and its digital twin. (b) A
drawer-closure example links an inferred task goal to required conditions, the video reference, and allowed alternatives. (c) Colors link alternatives to
grounded regions and candidate contacts. Rendered robots and objects are composited onto the real background to form policy observations. (d) Planning and
simulation validate candidates, yielding demonstrations with shared task instructions and execution labels for π0.5 fine-tuning and real-world deployment,
illustrated by banana placement during drawer storage.
planning success. To validate the generated data for robot
learning, we fine-tune the pretrained π0.5 vision-language-
action (VLA) model [19] on the generated simulation demon-
strations and demonstrate sim-to-real transfer.
In summary, our main contributions are:
• To generate robot training data from human videos,
we introduce KNOWDEMO, a framework that uses
structured manipulation knowledge to generate diverse
demonstrations for a target workspace.
• To distinguish task requirements from demonstration-
specific choices, we develop a knowledge extraction
and reasoning method that associates task conditions,
demonstration references, and permissible variations
with structured object and action descriptions. To trans-
late this knowledge into executable demonstrations, we
ground object and action descriptions in target-scene
entities and geometry to guide candidate sampling and
screening before motion planning and simulation, re-
taining structured execution labels with the generated
demonstrations.
• To evaluate the framework, we quantify gains in verified
execution modes over a reference-only configuration,
measure the improvement in candidate planning suc-
cess, and validate sim-to-real transfer using policies
fine-tuned on the generated data.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Manipulation Knowledge from Human Videos
Human videos support robot manipulation through two
common approaches: training policies that map robot ob-
servations to actions, and extracting explicit knowledge rep-
resentations of goals, object relations, and motion references
for planning. In the first approach, MimicPlay learns latent
plans from human play to guide a policy trained on robot
demonstrations [20], while Vid2Robot conditions actions on
demonstration videos and current observations [5].
Explicit representations expose task structure and motion
for reasoning and adaptation. SeeDo converts videos into
action plans through vision-language reasoning [8]; ORION
represents object states, contacts, and motion with Open-
World Object Graphs [21]; DITTO transforms object-relative
motion for the current scene [9]. DemoDiffusion combines
motion references with learned action priors, refining re-
targeted human motion using a pretrained diffusion pol-
icy [22]. Our structured knowledge separates task require-
ments, demonstration references, and permissible variations
to guide target-scene demonstration generation.
B. Knowledge-Guided Robot Demonstration Generation
Task and scene knowledge guides contact selection and
motion parameters. CRAM represents objects, locations,
and actions through designators; perception and reasoning


resolve their unspecified properties to contextualize gener-
alized plans [12]. KnowRob combines symbolic knowledge,
perception, geometry, and simulation for manipulation rea-
soning [23]. Spatial constraints and value maps provide geo-
metric guidance for planning [24], [25], [26]. Task-oriented
grasping connects contact selection to the intended operation:
OVAL-Grasp uses task-relevant part heatmaps to score and
filter grasp candidates [27], and DemoFunGrasp conditions
grasps on affordance regions and grasping styles [28].
Demonstration generators make these decisions across
scene configurations. MimicGen and DemoGen adapt refer-
ences to new object poses [3], [4]; SkillMimicGen combines
skill-level generation with planning [13]. CP-Gen preserves
keypoint-trajectory constraints across geometries [11], Hy-
bridGen uses VLM segment classification and constraint-
guided replanning [14], and AffordGen transfers affordance
keypoints across meshes [29]. Using human videos, DexImit,
PSI, and Real2Gen combine motion synthesis with simula-
tion [10], [15], [30]. Pegasus combines task, affordance, and
constraint graphs with physical verification [31].
We adopt CRAM’s designators and resolution mecha-
nism to link video-derived task conditions, references, and
permissible variations to action descriptions. Target-scene
resolution specifies alternative contact regions, interaction
modes, grasp strategies, and valid subtask orders. Generated
demonstrations retain these choices as execution labels under
the shared task instruction.
C. Scene Reconstruction for Robot Simulation
Video2Policy, Human2Sim2Robot, and X-Sim reconstruct
interactive environments for learning from human videos [7],
[32], [33]. Articulated-object reconstruction supplies geom-
etry and joints [34]. For visual matching, SIMPLER com-
posites simulated assets onto real backgrounds [35], while
SplatSim and RoboSimGS use Gaussian splatting [36], [37].
Our target-workspace digital twin supplies entity references
and geometry for knowledge grounding and demonstration
generation across tasks.
III. METHOD
KNOWDEMO comprises four components: digital-twin
construction (Section III-A), manipulation knowledge extrac-
tion and reasoning (Section III-B), knowledge-guided exe-
cution generation (Section III-C), and simulation validation
and policy learning (Section III-D). Figure 1 shows the
framework.
A. Problem Setup and Digital-Twin Construction
Given a human video V , calibrated target-workspace RGB
observations YR (optionally with depth), and a robot model
MR, we generate an observation–action dataset DR. Demon-
strations satisfy the inferred task requirements while allowing
alternatives to the observed contacts and subtask order.
We construct a digital twin ER of the target workspace in
Isaac Sim, using an official Franka model, reconstructed task
objects, and an aligned collision table. The table provides
physical support and collision geometry but is excluded from
the rendered RGB foreground. Policy observations combine
robot and object renderings with a fixed-camera workspace
image after masking and inpainting movable entities [35].
SAM3 [38] segments images, SAM3D Objects [39] recon-
structs rigid objects, and URDF-Anything+ [40] reconstructs
articulated task objects, including drawer cabinets and mi-
crowave doors, with their part geometry and joints. Assets
are scaled using known dimensions or depth, calibrated to the
robot base, and converted to USD with joint and physical
properties. Collision meshes preserve cavities and contact
surfaces.
A queryable USD index [41] stores entity IDs, prim
paths, poses, meshes, part hierarchies, and joint types, axes,
and limits. Rendered masks link IDs to image regions;
back-projected part masks and fitted interiors define contact
patches and containment volumes for grounding.
B. Manipulation Knowledge Extraction and Reasoning
To distinguish task requirements from demonstration-
specific choices, our knowledge extraction and reasoning
module combines VLM-based parsing of object roles and
subtask structure with recovered motion evidence. A pre-
trained VLM with frozen parameters reasons over this in-
formation and target-scene descriptions, using commonsense
knowledge to infer task conditions and permissible execution
variations.
a) Video parsing: The VLM infers a task instruc-
tion from the video and identifies subtask boundaries from
changes in manipulated objects, contacts, and object rela-
tions. Each subtask records its interval, object roles, initial
and goal relations, contact/release events, and supporting
frames. SAM3.1 [42] tracks object masks; SpatialTracker
V2 [43] estimates depth and camera parameters; Founda-
tionPose++ [44] uses these estimates and aligned SAM3D
Objects meshes to track object and rigid-part poses. Motion
relative to reference object b is bTo(t) = (CTb(t))−1CTo(t),
where C is the source camera frame and ATB maps B
coordinates to A. Without known source dimensions, trans-
lations are normalized by source extent and scaled to the
corresponding target dimension. Motion intervals are linked
to their subtasks.
b) Structured knowledge: We adopt CRAM’s object,
location, and action designators [12]. Object designators
describe properties and parts; location designators specify
spatial relations and pose requirements; action designators
reference these descriptions and contain execution parame-
ters to be resolved in the target scene.
The VLM organizes the linked knowledge as K
=
(O, S, C, R, A): O contains object and part descriptions,
S contains subtasks and their dependencies, C specifies
required conditions, R stores contact and motion references,
and A specifies permissible variations. Records link to the
relevant designators and subtasks; target-scene resolution
instantiates alternatives using available parts, geometry, and
execution operators. Conditions specify predicates, role ar-
guments, and whether they apply before, during, or after
a subtask; variations identify candidate contact parts and


Franka Emika
Panda
Fixed camera
Fig. 2.
Real-robot workspace with a Franka arm, parallel-jaw gripper, and
fixed external camera.
supported interaction modes. Predicates cover containment,
relative placement, orientation, joint state, release, and grip-
per clearance.
Observed order is recorded in R, while precedence edges
in S are inferred when one subtask produces a state required
by another. Video observations carry evidence links and
are distinguished from commonsense deductions. Structural
checks verify role references, acyclic subtask dependencies,
and supported predicates and modes. When ambiguities or
inconsistencies arise, the VLM re-examines relevant clips
and target-scene views; unresolved critical fields stop gener-
ation.
C. Knowledge-Guided Execution Generation in the Target
Workspace
We use CRAM’s designator resolution mechanism to
instantiate descriptions in the digital twin. Our resolution
procedures combine VLM-based semantic matching, USD
queries, and geometric sampling (Algorithm 1).
a) Entity and region grounding: The VLM uses the
digital twin’s entity and part descriptions, spatial relations,
joint states, geometric queries, and rendered views with
ID overlays to match object references to scene entities.
Each reference r is bound to an entity and region, β(r) =
(eR, ρR). The scene index verifies entity existence, part
membership, and joint compatibility. The location resolver
converts spatial relations and pose requirements into sam-
pling conditions; concrete poses are sampled after each
layout update.
b) Execution selection: Given the inferred task con-
ditions and permissible variations, the VLM uses digital-
twin information to select candidate contact parts, interaction
modes, and grasp strategies supported by the system. For
grasping, it also selects a coarse approach direction com-
patible with subsequent placement, release, and withdrawal.
Each alternative is ξ = (p, m, h), with contact part/region
p, interaction mode m, and grasp strategy h; surface push-
ing uses h = ∅. For grasping alternatives, an associated
approach-direction rule constrains geometric grasp sampling.
Supported strategies include rim grasping, body grasping,
and handle grasping, corresponding to contacts on the rim,
outer body, and handle. The available parts determine which
strategies apply to an object. The VLM retains multiple task-
compatible alternatives.
A task-constraint adapter maps modes to grasp-and-
transport, placement/release, grasped-articulation, or surface-
pushing operators. Each operator provides geometric in-
puts, gripper states, preconditions/effects, and a waypoint
constructor. Task dependencies and operator preconditions
determine admissible subtask orders. Typed predicates check
preconditions, propagated effects, contact regions, and goal
conflicts before planning; continuous conditions remain at-
tached to their subtasks for geometric and physical valida-
tion.
c) Geometric sampling and motion construction: The
adapter obtains contact regions from bound parts and re-
solves admissible approach directions from their geometry.
A grasp strategy may admit multiple approach directions.
We represent each admissible approach direction using the
approach-cone formulation in CAPGrasp [45]. The adapter
resolves a unit direction d in the robot-base frame from
gravity, a part frame, or a surface normal. With angular
tolerance α, a grasp g must satisfy
u(g)Td ≥cos α,
(1)
where u(g) is the unit pre-grasp-to-contact direction. The
tolerance is specified by the geometric rule for that approach.
Top-down and side describe approach directions; rim, body,
and handle describe the grasp strategies whose contacts are
constrained by the bound regions.
After each layout update, the Isaac Sim Grasping SDG an-
tipodal sampler [46] generates concrete grasp poses from ob-
ject meshes, with opposing surface contacts within the grip-
per aperture. The adapter retains poses satisfying the selected
strategy’s grounded contact-region, approach-direction, and
clearance constraints. Rotation about the approach axis re-
mains available. Placement sampling accounts for destination
boundaries, object footprint, support height, and orientation.
For compatible interaction modes, we express the recov-
ered object motion relative to the task-relevant reference
object or part. We map this motion into the corresponding
target frame, scale translations to target dimensions, and
adapt it to the sampled placement pose. For candidate a,
its object waypoints and sampled grasp ga determine the
end-effector targets:
WRTe(t; a) = WRTo(t; a) oTe(ga),
(2)
where WR is the robot-base frame and
oTe(ga) is the
grasp’s object-relative gripper pose. Alternative interaction
modes construct waypoints from sampled contacts, goals,
and operator geometry. Each candidate includes release and
withdrawal.
d) Drawer example: In Fig. 1(b)–(c), the required out-
come is a closed drawer with the banana inside. The human’s
handle grasp is a reference; resolution yields handle-grasp
and panel-push alternatives. Handle-based motion adapts the
reference to the target joint geometry. Panel pushing uses
the sampled contact, panel normal, joint axis, and drawer
displacement. Both follow insertion and gripper withdrawal
and satisfy the same containment and joint-state conditions
(Fig. 3(a)).


Algorithm 1 Knowledge-guided demonstration generation
Require: Knowledge K, indexed digital twin ER, attempt
budget B
1: Resolve designators to bindings β, sampling conditions,
and alternatives ξ = (p, m, h) with grasp approach rules
2: Enumerate admissible alternative/order combinations;
initialize DR ←∅
3: for i = 1 to B do
4:
Select the next combination in round-robin order;
sample x0 and update grounded geometry
5:
if symbolic conditions fail then continue
6:
Sample contacts, grasps, and goals under grounded
constraints
7:
if geometric sampling fails then continue
8:
Construct waypoints from compatible references or
operator geometry; plan the complete execution
9:
if planning fails then continue
10:
Reset to x0; execute and monitor subtask conditions
11:
Verify execution labels against the rollout
12:
if all subtask conditions, final goals, and label checks
pass then
13:
Store the task instruction, verified labels, observa-
tions, and actions in DR
14:
end if
15: end for
16: return DR
e) Planning: cuRobo [47] receives the joint state, colli-
sion world, carried-object geometry, and targets. Free-space
segments use motion generation; interaction waypoints use
sequential inverse kinematics initialized from the preceding
solution. Interpolated paths are checked for joint limits,
collisions, and orientation/region conditions, with intended
contacts specified per subtask.
D. Simulation Validation and Policy Learning
Isaac Sim executes joint/gripper commands and checks
subtask predicates using relative gripper–object motion,
placement stability, joint states, and destination geometry.
Acceptance requires all subtask conditions and final goals,
including release and withdrawal; failures are logged by
subtask. Accepted records synchronize RGB, proprioception,
actions, knowledge, and bindings. They retain the shared
task instruction and execution labels: target entities, contact
parts, interaction modes, grasp strategies, and subtask order.
Execution traces and contact checks verify labels initialized
from candidate choices. An execution mode is defined by
a contact strategy and a valid subtask order. Continuous
contact positions and target-plate choices are not counted as
separate modes. Labels support selection by execution mode
and optional conditioning of policy training. Training ac-
tions comprise end-effector pose increments computed from
consecutive executed poses and the corresponding binary
gripper commands. Policy fine-tuning and real deployment
use the same action representation. Section IV-D specifies
the learning and deployment settings.
(a) Drawer Storage: contact strategy
Put the banana in the drawer and close it.
Grasp handle
and push
Push front
panel
(b) Two-Fruit Placement: subtask order
Place the banana and orange on the plate.
1. Place orange
2. Place banana
1. Place banana
2. Place orange
Fig. 3.
Successful simulation executions under shared task instructions.
For each task, alternatives use the same reference video and initial state.
(a) Drawer closure by grasping the handle and pushing, or by pushing the
front panel. (b) Both fruit-placement orders on the same plate, shown after
each placement.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
We evaluate three aspects of the framework: behavioral
diversity from the same human video, candidate planning
success through task-guided grasp sampling, and the use of
generated data for policy fine-tuning and sim-to-real transfer.
A. Experimental Setup
a) Platform and inputs: We use a Franka arm with a
parallel-jaw gripper, a fixed external RGB camera, and the
digital twin described in Section III-A (Fig. 2). We run the
pretrained Qwen3.8-27B [48] with frozen parameters on a
single NVIDIA A100 GPU. Videos are sampled at 2 FPS
with timestamps; ambiguous contacts or subtask boundaries
trigger VLM re-analysis of more densely sampled clips. Each
task uses one reference video, recovered motion evidence,
and target assets. Layouts vary object poses and include
distractors.
b) Tasks: Drawer Storage opens a drawer, inserts a
banana, withdraws the gripper from the interior, and closes
the drawer with the banana inside; closure permits handle
grasping or panel pushing. Two-Fruit Placement places an
orange and a banana on a plate in either order, leaving
both stable within their placement regions. Close Microwave
requires full door closure and gripper withdrawal, allowing


Human: grasp
Human: place
Robot: grasp (sim.)
(a) Cabinet top to drawer
(b) Below drawer to cabinet top
Fig. 4.
Human grasp and placement references with corresponding robot
grasps in simulation: (a) cabinet top to drawer, using a top-down robot
approach; (b) beneath an extended drawer to cabinet top, pairing a palm-
down human grasp with a side approach by the robot. Robot grasps
accommodate placement and withdrawal in (a), and access beneath the
drawer in (b).
TABLE I
VERIFIED EXECUTION MODES.
Task
Reference-only
KNOWDEMO
Drawer Storage
1
2
Two-Fruit Placement
1
2
Close Microwave∗
1
1
∗Close Microwave: both use one pushing mode; KNOWDEMO varies
contact positions within that mode.
different pushing contacts. Real-policy evaluation uses these
three tasks, with Banana Drawer Storage starting from an
already open drawer.
Grasp-sampling evaluation uses the two tasks in Fig. 4:
Cup-in-Drawer moves a cup from the cabinet top into an
open drawer, and Cup-to-Cabinet moves a cup from beneath
an extended drawer onto the cabinet top. Both require
stability after release and gripper withdrawal. Success criteria
are fixed independently of inferred knowledge.
c) Generation backend: The backend combines video-
derived motion references, geometric grasp sampling, and
planning, following the general workflow of Real2Gen [30],
with task adapters for articulated motion and execution of
multiple subtasks. The grasp-sampling comparison changes
grasp-strategy selection within this shared backend, as de-
tailed below.
B. Behavioral Diversity of Generated Demonstrations
Table I reports execution modes verified by complete suc-
cessful demonstrations. Reference-only retains the demon-
strated contact strategy and subtask order using the same
backend for target-scene adaptation. Modes follow the defi-
nition in Section III-D.
Figure 3 shows successful alternatives from matched initial
states. Drawer Storage uses handle grasping or panel pushing
for closure after banana insertion and gripper withdrawal,
preserving containment and the final closed state (Fig. 3(a)).
TABLE II
GRASP-SAMPLING ABLATION.
Task
Without task
guidance
KNOWDEMO
Cup-in-Drawer
29/50
50/50
Cup-to-Cabinet
23/50
45/50
Entries report successful complete-task plans / sampled candidates.
For Two-Fruit Placement, KNOWDEMO varies placement
order and, when task conditions permit, target plate; both are
retained as execution labels. Figure 3(b) shows banana-first
and orange-first sequences using the same plate, with frames
after each placement.
For Close Microwave, the generated demonstrations use
different door contact positions within the same pushing
mode, while preserving the task instruction and requiring
no additional human videos.
C. Task-Guided Grasp Sampling
Human grasp strategies need not transfer directly to a robot
gripper. Figure 4 pairs grasp and placement frames from
each reference video. In (a), the cup moves from the cabinet
top into a drawer, where placement and gripper withdrawal
constrain grasp choice. The human reorients the cup within
the hand before insertion, so the grasp and placement frames
show different hand–object configurations. In (b), the human
uses a palm-down grasp to move the cup from beneath an
extended drawer to the cabinet top; the overhang constrains
robot approach and extraction. The framework preserves the
task goals while selecting robot contact regions and approach
directions from target geometry. Planning and simulation
check the complete execution.
Task-oriented grasping connects contact selection to op-
eration requirements [27]. Our quantitative ablation uses
Cup-in-Drawer and Cup-to-Cabinet to measure whether task-
guided strategy selection increases complete-task planning
success under a fixed budget.
a) Comparison: We isolate task-guided grasp selection
within the same generation backend. Without task guidance,
a grasp strategy and its associated approach rule are sam-
pled from the object’s applicable set independently of task-
specific approach and placement requirements. KNOWDEMO
selects strategies using task requirements and target-scene
information. For the handleless cups, both configurations use
the rim- and body-grasp strategies from Section III-C. The
adapter maps each strategy to contact-region and approach-
direction constraints. KNOWDEMO selects a top-down ap-
proach for Cup-in-Drawer to accommodate placement and
withdrawal inside the drawer, and a side approach for Cup-
to-Cabinet to accommodate access beneath the extended
drawer. Both configurations use Grasping SDG with the same
scene assets, grounded geometry, placement goals, execution
operators, and per-candidate planning budget; task conditions
and geometric checks remain active during planning and
simulation validation. Initial positions vary within a small
neighborhood of each setup, with paired states across meth-


Banana Drawer Storage
Simulation: initial
Real: initial
Real: intermediate
Real: final
Close Microwave
Simulation: initial
Real: initial
Real: intermediate
Real: final
Two-Fruit Placement
Simulation: initial
Real: initial
Real: intermediate
Real: final
Fig. 5.
Simulation observations and real-robot executions. For each task, the upper-left image combines rendered robots and task objects with a real
background. The other three images show initial, intermediate, and final frames of autonomous real-robot executions using π0.5 fine-tuned on generated
simulation demonstrations.
TABLE III
REAL-ROBOT POLICY SUCCESS RATES.
Task
Simulation
demos
Successes/
trials
Success
rate (%)
Banana Drawer Storage
200
10/20
50
Close Microwave
100
14/20
70
Two-Fruit Placement
200
11/20
55
ods. Each method submits 50 candidates per task; a plan
must cover grasp, transfer, placement, and withdrawal.
b) Results: Table II reports complete-task plans out
of 50 candidates per task and method, evaluated before
simulation execution. Task-guided grasp selection improves
planning success from 58% to 100% for Cup-in-Drawer and
from 46% to 90% for Cup-to-Cabinet. Failed candidates
include grasps that permit pickup but prevent the planner
from finding a collision-free trajectory for subsequent place-
ment or gripper withdrawal. Task-guided selection accounts
for these downstream requirements when choosing the grasp
strategy.
D. Policy Learning and Real-Robot Evaluation
We fine-tune the pretrained π0.5 vision-language-action
model [19] for each task evaluated on the real robot, using
only generated simulation demonstrations. Policies receive
RGB images, proprioceptive states, and the shared task
instructions. Execution labels are retained as dataset meta-
data. We perform full-parameter fine-tuning with openpi for
15,000 steps, using a batch size of 256 and a learning rate of
5 × 10−5. The action chunk length is 10, with all 10 actions
executed before the next query.
Table III reports dataset sizes and complete-task success
over 20 real trials per task with layout variations and no
human intervention. Success rates of 50–70% demonstrate
sim-to-real transfer for door pushing, sequential fruit place-
ment, and object placement followed by drawer closure.
Figure 5 pairs simulation initial states with autonomous
real executions. The learned policies also exhibit behavioral
diversity: the same Two-Fruit Placement policy successfully
uses both placement orders, and Close Microwave executions
use different door contact positions.
Failures occur when target objects are occluded or when
the microwave and drawer cabinet positions differ substan-
tially from those represented in the generated demonstra-
tions. These observations indicate sensitivity to occlusion and
spatial layout changes in the deployed policies.
V. LIMITATIONS
The framework depends on the quality of inferred knowl-
edge and the target scene model. Task ambiguity, occlusion,
and motion-recovery errors can lead to incorrect task condi-
tions, excluding valid alternatives or admitting inappropriate
ones. Geometric and physical validation checks execution
against the inferred conditions but cannot establish whether
those conditions capture the intended task. Errors in target
geometry, articulation, and contact parameters, together with
visual and dynamic differences between simulation and hard-
ware, can degrade generated demonstrations and real-world
execution. Extending the framework to new tasks requires
compatible assets, support for the required interactions, and
policy fine-tuning. Multiple demonstrations and real execu-
tion feedback could improve condition inference and scene-
model accuracy.
VI. CONCLUSION
We presented KNOWDEMO, a framework that uses struc-
tured manipulation knowledge from human videos to guide
robot demonstration generation in a target workspace. To ex-
pand behavioral diversity while preserving task requirements,
our VLM-based knowledge extraction and reasoning module
distinguishes required conditions, demonstration references,
and permissible variations within CRAM action descriptions.
To reduce invalid generation attempts, we ground these de-
scriptions in target-scene entities and geometry to guide can-
didate sampling and screening before planning and simula-
tion. The resulting demonstrations share the inferred task in-
struction and retain structured execution labels. Experiments
demonstrate additional verified execution modes beyond a
reference-only configuration, improved candidate planning
success through task-guided grasp sampling, and sim-to-real
transfer using π0.5 fine-tuned on generated demonstrations.


REFERENCES
[1] Open X-Embodiment Collaboration, “Open X-Embodiment: Robotic
learning datasets and RT-X models,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot.
Autom. (ICRA), 2024, pp. 6892–6903.
[2] A. Khazatsky, et al., “DROID: A large-scale in-the-wild robot manip-
ulation dataset,” in Proc. Robot.: Sci. Syst. (RSS), 2024.
[3] A. Mandlekar, et al., “MimicGen: A data generation system for
scalable robot learning using human demonstrations,” in Proc. Conf.
Robot Learn. (CoRL), ser. Proc. Mach. Learn. Res., vol. 229, 2023,
pp. 1820–1864.
[4] Z. Xue, S. Deng, Z. Chen, Y. Wang, Z. Yuan, and H. Xu, “DemoGen:
Synthetic demonstration generation for data-efficient visuomotor pol-
icy learning,” in Proc. Robot.: Sci. Syst. (RSS), 2025.
[5] V. Jain, et al., “Vid2Robot: End-to-end video-conditioned policy
learning with cross-attention transformers,” 2024, arXiv:2403.12943.
[6] J. Shi, et al., “ZeroMimic: Distilling robotic manipulation skills from
web videos,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://zeromimic.github.io/
[7] P. Dan, et al., “X-Sim: Cross-embodiment learning via real-to-sim-to-
real,” 2025, arXiv:2505.07096.
[8] B. Wang, J. Zhang, S. Dong, I. Fang, and C. Feng, “VLM see, robot
do: Human demo video to robot action plan via vision language
model,” 2024, arXiv:2410.08792.
[9] N. Heppert, M. Argus, T. Welschehold, T. Brox, and A. Valada,
“DITTO: Demonstration imitation by trajectory transformation,” in
Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. Intell. Robots Syst. (IROS), 2024, pp. 7565–
7572.
[10] J. Mu, et al., “DexImit: Learning bimanual dexterous manipulation
from monocular human videos,” 2026, arXiv:2602.10105.
[11] K. Lin, et al., “Constraint-preserving data generation for one-shot vi-
suomotor policy generalization,” in Proc. Conf. Robot Learn. (CoRL),
ser. Proc. Mach. Learn. Res., vol. 305, 2025, pp. 3631–3646.
[12] M. Beetz, G. Kazhoyan, and D. Vernon, “Robot manipulation in
everyday activities with the CRAM 2.0 cognitive architecture and
generalized action plans,” Cogn. Syst. Res., vol. 92, p. 101375, 2025.
[13] C. R. Garrett, A. Mandlekar, B. Wen, and D. Fox, “SkillMimicGen:
Automated demonstration generation for efficient skill learning and
deployment,” in Proc. Conf. Robot Learn. (CoRL), ser. Proc. Mach.
Learn. Res., vol. 270, 2025, pp. 2750–2790.
[14] W. Wang and N. Tan, “HybridGen: VLM-guided hybrid plan-
ning for scalable data generation of imitation learning,” 2025,
arXiv:2503.13171.
[15] A. J. Zhai, K.-H. Zeng, J. Lu, A. Farhadi, S. Wang, and W.-C. Ma,
“Imitating what works: Simulation-filtered modular policy learning
from human videos,” Trans. Mach. Learn. Res., 2026. [Online].
Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=ZEmv4DhaGL
[16] C. Chi, et al., “Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action
diffusion,” in Proc. Robot.: Sci. Syst. (RSS), 2023.
[17] N. M. M. Shafiullah, Z. J. Cui, A. Altanzaya, and L. Pinto, “Behavior
transformers: Cloning k modes with one stone,” in Adv. Neural Inf.
Process. Syst., vol. 35, 2022.
[18] X. Jia, et al., “Towards diverse behaviors: A benchmark for imitation
learning with human demonstrations,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn.
Represent. (ICLR), 2024.
[19] Physical Intelligence, et al., “π0.5: A vision-language-action model
with open-world generalization,” 2025, arXiv:2504.16054.
[20] C. Wang, et al., “MimicPlay: Long-horizon imitation learning by
watching human play,” in Proc. Conf. Robot Learn. (CoRL), ser. Proc.
Mach. Learn. Res., vol. 229, 2023, pp. 201–221.
[21] Y. Zhu, A. Lim, P. Stone, and Y. Zhu, “Vision-based manipulation from
single human video with open-world object graphs,” Auton. Robots,
vol. 50, 2026, Art. no. 27.
[22] S. Park, H. Bharadhwaj, and S. Tulsiani, “DemoDiffusion: One-shot
human imitation using pre-trained diffusion policy,” in Proc. IEEE Int.
Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), 2026.
[23] M. Beetz, D. Beßler, A. Haidu, M. Pomarlan, A. K. Bozcuo˘glu, and
G. Bartels, “KnowRob 2.0—a 2nd generation knowledge processing
framework for cognition-enabled robotic agents,” in Proc. IEEE Int.
Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), 2018, pp. 512–519.
[24] L. Manuelli, W. Gao, P. Florence, and R. Tedrake, “kPAM: Key-
Point affordances for category-level robotic manipulation,” 2019,
arXiv:1903.06684.
[25] W. Huang, C. Wang, Y. Li, R. Zhang, and L. Fei-Fei, “ReKep:
Spatio-temporal reasoning of relational keypoint constraints for robotic
manipulation,” in Proc. Conf. Robot Learn. (CoRL), ser. Proc. Mach.
Learn. Res., vol. 270, 2025, pp. 4573–4602.
[26] W. Huang, C. Wang, R. Zhang, Y. Li, J. Wu, and L. Fei-Fei,
“VoxPoser: Composable 3D value maps for robotic manipulation with
language models,” in Proc. Conf. Robot Learn. (CoRL), ser. Proc.
Mach. Learn. Res., vol. 229, 2023, pp. 540–562.
[27] E. Tong, A. Balaji, A. Opipari, S. Lewis, Z. Zeng, and O. C.
Jenkins, “OVAL-Grasp: Open-vocabulary affordance localization for
task oriented grasping,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Exp. Robot. (ISER), 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://ekjt.github.io/OVAL-Grasp/
[28] C. Mao, H. Yuan, Z. Huang, C. Xu, K. Ma, and Z. Lu, “Demo-
FunGrasp: Universal dexterous functional grasping via demonstration-
editing reinforcement learning,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), 2026, pp. 986–995.
[29] J. Zhang, K. Hu, Y. Huang, Y. Ju, Z. Xue, and H. Xu, “AffordGen:
Generating diverse demonstrations for generalizable object manipula-
tion with affordance correspondence,” 2026, arXiv:2604.10579.
[30] N. Heppert, M. Q. Nguyen, and A. Valada, “Scaling single human
demonstrations for imitation learning using generative foundational
models,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), 2026.
[31] J. Luo, “From passive video to editable experience: Physically
grounded experience synthesis for embodied intelligence,” 2026,
arXiv:2607.26903.
[32] W. Ye, F. Liu, Z. Ding, Y. Gao, O. Rybkin, and P. Abbeel,
“Video2Policy: Scaling up manipulation tasks in simulation through
internet videos,” 2025, arXiv:2502.09886.
[33] T. G. W. Lum, O. Y. Lee, C. K. Liu, and J. Bohg, “Crossing the
human-robot embodiment gap with sim-to-real RL using one human
demonstration,” 2025, arXiv:2504.12609.
[34] Y. Weng, et al., “Neural implicit representation for building digital
twins of unknown articulated objects,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), 2024, pp. 3141–3150.
[35] X. Li, et al., “Evaluating real-world robot manipulation policies in
simulation,” 2024, arXiv:2405.05941.
[36] M. N. Qureshi, S. Garg, F. Yandun, D. Held, G. Kantor, and A. Silwal,
“SplatSim: Zero-shot Sim2Real transfer of RGB manipulation policies
using gaussian splatting,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom.
(ICRA), 2025, pp. 6502–6509.
[37] H. Zhao, et al., “High-fidelity simulated data generation for real-world
zero-shot robotic manipulation learning with gaussian splatting,” 2025,
arXiv:2510.10637.
[38] N. Carion, et al., “SAM 3: Segment anything with concepts,” 2025,
arXiv:2511.16719.
[39] SAM 3D Team, et al., “SAM 3D: 3Dfy anything in images,” 2025,
arXiv:2511.16624.
[40] Z.
Wu,
et
al.,
“URDF-Anything+:
End-to-end
generation
for
simulation-ready articulated assets,” 2026, arXiv:2603.14010.
[41] G. H. Nguyen, D. Beßler, S. Stelter, M. Pomarlan, and M. Beetz,
“Translating universal scene descriptions into knowledge graphs for
robotic environment,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA),
2024, pp. 9389–9395.
[42] SAM
3
Team,
“SAM
3.1:
Release
notes,”
GitHub,
2026,
Accessed: Sep. 14, 2026. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/
facebookresearch/sam3/blob/main/RELEASE_SAM3p1.md
[43] Y. Xiao, et al., “SpatialTrackerV2: Advancing 3D point tracking with
explicit camera motion,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis.
(ICCV), 2025, pp. 6726–6737.
[44] teal024, “FoundationPose++: Simple tricks boost FoundationPose
performance in high-dynamic scenes,” GitHub, 2025, Accessed:
Sep.
14,
2026.
[Online].
Available:
https://github.com/teal024/
FoundationPose-plus-plus
[45] Z. Weng, H. Lu, J. Lundell, and D. Kragic, “CAPGrasp: An R3 ×
SO(2)-equivariant continuous approach-constrained generative grasp
sampler,” IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett., vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 3641–3647,
2024.
[46] NVIDIA,
“Grasping
synthetic
data
generation,”
Isaac
Sim
5.1
Documentation,
accessed:
Sep.
15,
2026.
[Online].
Available: https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/5.1.0/synthetic_
data_generation/tutorial_replicator_grasping_sdg.html
[47] B. Sundaralingam, et al., “CuRobo: Parallelized collision-free robot
motion generation,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA),
2023, pp. 8112–8119.


[48] Qwen Team, “Qwen3.8-27B,” Hugging Face, 2026, model card.
Accessed: Sep. 14, 2026. [Online]. Available: https://huggingface.co/
Qwen/Qwen3.8-27B
