Title: Relative Contact Velocity-Controlled Hand-Object Mechanism for Dexterous Tool Manipulation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.25619v1

Published Time: Wed, 23 Sep 2026 00:48:33 GMT

Number of Pages: 8

Markdown Content:
# Relative Contact Velocity-Controlled Hand-Object Mechanism for Dexterous Tool Manipulation 

Sunyu Wang, Jean Oh, and Nancy S. Pollard 

Fig. 1: Five different robotic hands picking up, loading, and wielding a precision screwdriver [1] in Drake simulator [2], along with the human hand performing the same task as a reference. 

Abstract — This work investigates how to enable general multi-finger robotic hands to perform the complete tool ma-nipulation process, which entails picking up a tool, loading it into a suitable pose, and then wielding it. Inspired by human tool manipulation and mechanical design principles, we model the hand and the tool as a unified hand-object mechanism (HOM) composed of sub-assemblies. Specifically, we define a HOM as consisting of the hand, the object, and the generalized contact frames, allowing the HOM’s motions to be expressed with the same set of Cartesian-space relative contact velocities, irrespective of the hand’s kinematics and geometry. Then, we define a HOM’s sub-assemblies as relative contact velocity and contact force constraints between fingers. Building on these definitions, we developed a lightweight and physically interpretable motion planning and contact estimation framework using least squares and a complementary filter. We evaluated our framework in simulation by teleoperating five different robotic hands. The results show that our framework enabled all five hands to execute the complete tool manipulation process, achieving dexterous behaviors even from identical, simple reference trajectories. Furthermore, the results showcase our framework’s adaptability to different hands, tools, and tasks, enabled by its kinematic and geometric foundation. 

> The authors are with the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA. Corresponding author’s contact: sunyuw@andrew.cmu.edu

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Tool manipulation is an essential skill for humanoid robots to master. A defining characteristic of tool manipulation is tool-wielding, which centers on the particular ways to grasp and move a tool to exploit its function. Importantly, tool-wielding grasps and movements often differ from how the same tool would be grasped and moved in pick-and-place [3], [4]. Hence, for humanoid robots equipped with multi-finger hands, a complete tool manipulation process includes three phases: 1) picking up, 2) loading, and 3) wielding the tool. Loading means to configure the tool from the pose in which it is picked up to the pose in which it is ready to be wielded. In this work, we investigate how to enable general multi-finger robotic hands to achieve the entire pick-load-wield tool manipulation process. Our investigation begins with a mechanical intuition de-rived from human tool manipulation: the human hand con-figures itself and the tool into various parallel mechanisms to achieve provisional objectives in each phase of the tool manipulation process, gradually moving toward the end goal. These hand-object mechanisms are often simple, effective, and contain common sub-assemblies, much like the sub-arXiv:2609.25619v1 [cs.RO] 22 Sep 2026 assemblies of machines. Following this intuition, we identified specific sub-assemblies that reappear in human tool manipulation and formulated the concept of hand-object mechanism for general multi-finger robotic hands. The key to this formulation is the generalized contact frames—the kinematic constructs that allow dexterous in-hand manipulations to be described with the same set of Cartesian-space relative contact velocities, irrespective of the hand’s kinematics and geometry. Then, we define sub-assemblies as constraints that couple the relative contact velocities and contact forces between fingers, and apply the definitions to develop a lightweight and physically interpretable motion planning and contact estimation frame-work based on least squares and a complementary filter. To evaluate our framework, we used it to teleoperate five robotic hands to pick up, load, and wield tools in dynamic simulation. The results show that our framework enabled all five hands to achieve the complete tool manipulation process with fine, dexterous behaviors even from identical, simple reference trajectories, despite these hands’ different kinemat-ics and geometries. Moreover, because of its kinematic and geometric foundation, our framework has little reliance on extensive data collection or model training. Setting up a new hand, a new tool, and/or a new task with our framework is plug-and-play and can be finished in hours. Lastly, we discuss our framework’s limitations and considerations for implementing it on real-world hardware. II. R ELATED WORKS 

A. Hand-Object Mechanism (HOM) 

With the established theories of rigid body kinematics, treating a multi-finger hand and the manipulated object as one parallel mechanism has been a common approach. Prior works adopted this approach to analyze the workspace properties of multi-finger precision grasps [5]–[7] and to design robotic hands [8]–[11]. However, in the workspace analysis works, the concept of HOM mostly serves as a qualitative inspiration without concrete definitions. In the hand design works, the HOMs correspond to the chosen parallel mechanism designs, so the results tend to be specific to these morphologies. The ques-tion of what a general HOM is and how to use it to control general multi-finger robotic hands remains unanswered. This work provides an answer by concretely defining HOMs and the atomic units that constitute them—the sub-assemblies. 

B. Human Hand Manipulation Studies 

Given the human hand morphology, a HOM and its sub-assemblies fundamentally reflect human manipulation behav-iors, which have received extensive study. The study most relevant to this work is [12], as it contains types of precision in-hand manipulation that conceptually align with what we identified as sub-assemblies. Meanwhile, the concept of sub-assembly resonates with postural synergies [13]–[15], and the sub-assemblies we identified often operate on the basis of opposition and virtual finger [16], [17], which matches the behavior types in [18]. Despite the conceptual overlap, this work differs from these human hand manipulation studies in approach and ob-jective. These studies adopted an analysis approach, aiming to identify, classify, and elaborate on human hand manipula-tions as systematically and comprehensively as possible. By contrast, this work adopts a synthesis approach. Our objective is to enable general multi-finger robotic hands—which are often designed to mimic the human hand, but still radically differ from the human hand—to achieve the entire pick-load-wield tool manipulation process. Consequently, this work focuses on the methods we developed based on our intuition and the results our methods have attained, rather than meticulously analyzing human hand behaviors. 

C. Robotic Manipulation Motion Planning and Control 

Three technical approaches are popular among recent works on robotic manipulation motion planning and control: 1) imitation learning, 2) reinforcement learning, and 3) optimal control. All three approaches tackle manipulation as an optimization problem based on certain models and policies. Their main difference is the types of models and policies used [19], [20]. This work aligns most closely with the optimal control approach, as we use the rigid body roll-slide contact kinematics model and a least-squares-based policy, similar to [3], [21]–[24]. Moreover, many recent manipulation motion planning and control works have adopted a top-down perspective. They aim to develop one end-to-end model and/or policy with sufficient generalization capacity to encompass all tasks that the robot is expected to encounter. While these works have achieved remarkable results, their heavy reliance on data and computational resources can restrict their accessibility and ease of deployment. By contrast, this work adopts a bottom-up perspective based on the definitions of HOMs and their sub-assemblies. Hence, our methods tend to be more lightweight and easier to set up for different robots and tasks. III. M ETHODS 

A. Mechanical Intuition and Identification of Sub-Assemblies from Human Tool Manipulation 

The essence of tool manipulation is to achieve some desired Cartesian-space motion of, and/or wrench applied by, the tool. If the tool is mounted on a mechanical mechanism that admits the desired motion and wrench, executing the tool manipulation will be straightforward. From a mechanical design perspective, it is challenging to design a single mechanism that accounts for the immense variety and uncertainties of tools and tasks. However, we can apply this perspective to interpret human tool manipulation, while borrowing ideas from artificial intelligence: the human hand acts as a “mechanism approximator”, much like an artificial neural network (ANN) acts as a function approxi-mator. With many neurons, an ANN can approximate many functions [25]. Analogously, with many degrees of freedom (DoFs), the human hand can approximate many mechanical mechanisms, and is effectively forming the best mechanism it can with the tool to achieve the desired motion and wrench in each phase of the pick-load-wield tool manipulation process. Furthermore, today’s ANNs operate based on tokens, instead of individual numbers or characters. Analogously, evidence has suggested that the human hand operates based on postural synergies and grasp and movement types, instead of individual DoFs [12]–[15], [18]. Hence, we seek to identify the “tokens” of human tool manipulation, i.e., the atomic units that constitute the HOMs used by humans for tool manipulation. We term these atomic units “sub-assemblies”—akin to the sub-assemblies of a machine—to reflect their mechanical origin. The most common sub-assembly is a two-finger antipodal grasp, or pinch. A pinch as a sub-assembly is more than a static posture, as it can change its function by regulating the contact locations and forces. When the two contacts are directly opposite from each other and the contact forces are large, the pinch acts as a fixed joint, immobilizing the grasped tool; when the forces are small but large enough to hold the tool, the pinch acts as a revolute or a prismatic joint, allowing the tool to rotate or translate in-hand. When the two fingers’ contacts are offset from each other, the pinch acts as an actuator to axially rotate the tool, similar to the racks of the double rack-and-pinion mechanism. Another common sub-assembly is a single contact be-tween one finger and the tool, which we call a “pusher”. By regulating the finger’s motion and the contact force’s direction, a pusher can act as an actuator or a supporting structure. Frequently, a pusher pairs with a pinch and rotates or translates the tool about or along the joint formed by the pinch. Sometimes, a pusher pushes the tool against an environmental contact, forming a pinch with just one finger. 

B. Definitions of Hand-Object Mechanism and Sub-Assemblies for General Multi-Finger Robotic Hands 

Next, we apply the concept of HOM and the identified sub-assemblies to general multi-finger robotic hands for motion planning. Assuming nominally rigid bodies and that the kinematic structures and surface geometries of a hand and an object are known, we define a HOM to consist of the hand, the object, and the generalized contact frames (GCFs). Specifically, we define GCFs as two time-updated Carte-sian frames for each finger, one fixed to the body of the finger expected to contact the object—typically the distal link—and one fixed to the object. Then, we select one of the three Cartesian axes as the GCFs’ normal axes. When the finger body and the object are not in contact, the GCFs’ origins are the respective bodies’ witness points, i.e., the points on each body’s surface closest to the other body. The GCFs’ normal axes are the gradient of the signed distance function between the two bodies. When the finger body and the object are in contact, the GCFs’ origins are the points on the respective bodies’ surfaces closest to the true instantaneous contact point. The GCFs’ normal axes are the unit vectors pointing from the contact point to the respective GCFs’ origins, which always point outward relative to the respective bodies’ surfaces unless the finger body and the Finger Bodies' GCFs Object's GCFs Object's Body Frame 

Fig. 2: (Top) The hand-object mechanism consisting of a three-finger Orca hand [26], a primitive cylinder, and the generalized contact frames (GCFs), when the fingers and the object are not in contact. The GCFs’ x-axes are the normal axes, and their y-axes are maximally aligned with each finger body’s joint axis. The axes’ color convention is red-green-blue → x, y, z . (Bottom) Each finger’s number of DoFs for the five robotic hands used in the experiments. Fingers 4–5

are ignored as they were kept still in the experiments. object contact at precisely one point without interpenetration. In this edge case, the GCFs’ normal axes are the outward-pointing surface normals at the respective GCFs’ origins. Fig. 2 (top) shows an example of a HOM and its GCFs. The GCFs kinematically connect the hand and the ob-ject into one parallel mechanism, regardless of whether the fingers and the object are in contact. Mathematically, let {P }, {B}, {L} denote the palm’s body frame, a finger body’s or the object’s body frame, and a GCF, respectively. Let TP B ∈ SE (3) denote {B}’s pose relative to {P } as a 4 × 4 homogeneous transformation matrix, let V bP B ∈ R6

denote {B}’s body twist relative to {P }, and let Ad denote the adjoint operator. Let subscripts 0 and 1 denote frames fixed to the object and the finger body, respectively. For each finger in a HOM, since its GCF is fixed to the finger body, 

V bL0L1 = Ad TL1B1 V bP B 1 − Ad TL1B0 V bP B 0 [21] . (1) The (1)’s of all fingers constitute the non-holonomic con-straints that fully specify the HOM. The twist V bL0L1 contains each finger’s four relative contact velocities: 1) vroll ∈ R2,the angular velocity in the generalized contact tangent plane, i.e., the plane defined by the GCF’s two non-normal axes, 2) 

vspin ∈ R, the angular velocity about the GCF’s normal axis, 3) vslide ∈ R2, the linear velocity in the generalized contact tangent plane, and 4) vsep ∈ R, the linear velocity along the GCF’s normal axis. vroll , v spin , v slide , and vsep respectively describe how the finger body rolls, spins, slides, and sepa-rates from or approaches the object’s surface, and are simply the elements of V bL0L1 . For example, if the GCF’s normal axis is the x-axis, V bL0L1 = v⊺ 

> spin

v⊺ 

> roll

v⊺ 

> sep

v⊺

> slide

⊺.Based on the formulation above, we define a sub-assembly as constraints beyond (1) that couple particular fingers’ relative contact velocities and contact forces. Specifically, a pinch sub-assembly constrains two fingers’ vsep terms to be identical, so the two finger bodies move toward or away from the object simultaneously, if they are not in contact with the object. When in contact, a pinch constrains two fingers’ contact forces to have the same magnitude and opposite directions, applying a zero net wrench to the object and achieving force closure if the line connecting the two contact points is within their friction cones [27]. 

C. Motion Planning with Relative Contact Velocities 

To plan each finger’s motion, we substitute the finger body’s Jacobian equation V bP B 1 = JbP B 1 u into (1), where u

is the joint velocities. Then, we treat the object’s twist V bP B 0

as a reference input, and solve (1) for the finger’s reference joint velocities, uref , via least squares of the relative contact velocities, while respecting joint position and velocity limits 

uref = argmin 

> u

 X 

> i

wi∥vi,ref − vi(u)∥2 + wdamp ∥u∥2

+ whealthy ∥kp (θhealthy − θ) − u∥2

(2) s.t. θmin ≤ θ+∆ tu ≤ θmax and umin ≤ u ≤ umax ,

where i ∈ { roll, spin, slide, sep }. vi,ref is the reference for each relative contact velocity, θ is the current joint positions, ∆t is the update time period, and the w’s are weights with whealthy ≪ wdamp ≪ wi. The wdamp ∥u∥2

term is a damped least-squares regularizer to stabilize the reference joint velocities near singularities. The last cost term is a regularizer to gently pull the finger close to a pre-recorded healthy pose, θhealthy . This prevents a finger with redundant DoFs from being trapped in regions of its joint space that are difficult to exit. After uref is obtained, we time-integrate uref into reference joint positions θref , and compute the finger’s joint torques to track θref and uref 

using an inverse dynamics controller. To address integral windup, we clamp vsep,ref to zero when a finger body is within a small distance to the object, preventing the motion planner from commanding the finger to penetrate the object. Each finger’s motion can be commanded via either the four reference relative contact velocities, vi,ref , or the reference object body twist, V bP B 0 , which we set differently based on the finger’s sub-assembly. Through V bP B 0 , the fingers can manipulate the object as the HOM’s effector and achieve rich dexterous behaviors with simple commands, irrespective of the fingers’ kinematics and geometry. Specifically, the two fingers in a pinch will have the same 

V bP B 0 . When a third finger contacts the object in a pusher that rotates the object about the pinch axis, the pinching fingers will still have V bP B 0 = 0 , whereas the pusher will have 

V bP B 0 = Ad TB0M

 s 0 0⊺ 01×3

⊺

| {z } 

> VbP M

, (3) where s ∈ R is the reduced-order reference speed, and {M }

is the pinch frame fixed to the object, whose origin is the midpoint of the line segment connecting the two pinching fingers’ contact points and whose x-axis is parallel to the line segment. This enables control of the object’s rotation about the pinch axis via a single scalar, s, as if the pinch is a revolute joint and the pusher is the revolute joint’s actuator. 

D. Contact Estimation for Stable Impedance Control 

We aim to enable each finger to apply contact forces to the object with an impedance controller, which requires an action point and a direction. However, the GCF’s origin and normal axis are unsuited due to the instantaneous contact point’s sensitivity to minute contact movement. To achieve stable impedance control, we regard the GCF’s origin as a noisy measurement that accurately captures short-term contact movement, and pass it into a complementary filter that estimates the impedance controller’s action point as a continuous state using a process model based on rigid body roll-slide contact kinematics and geodesic tracing [21]. Specifically, define {C0} and {C1} as Cartesian frames 

moving on the object’s and the finger body’s respective surfaces, with the same Cartesian axis as the GCFs as their normal axes. Define {C0}’s and {C1}’s normal axes as the respective bodies’ outward-pointing surface normals. Then, 

pBj Cj [t + 1] = trace geodesic  pBj Cj [t] , ˙gj ∆t (4) 

˙gj = ˙ gj,ref + kj E  pBj Lj [t] − pBj Cj [t] (5) 

kj = kmin + ( kmax − kmin )



1 − e−3α−1∥ ˙gj,ref ∥

, (6) where j ∈ { 0, 1}, pBj Cj ∈ R3 is {Cj }’s Cartesian position relative to {Bj }, ˙gj ∈ R2 is the geodesic velocity in {Cj }’s tangent plane at discrete time step t, ˙gj,ref is ˙gj ’s reference, and E ∈ R2×3 is a matrix of 0s and 1s extracting the non-normal elements of a Cartesian position. Since both {Lj } and 

{Cj } are on the finger body’s or the object’s surface, their origins will converge when the reference geodesic speed, 

∥ ˙gj,ref ∥, is small. kj ∈ R is the filter gain. It allows fine time integration of {Cj } when ∥ ˙gj,ref ∥ is small to smooth 

{Cj }’s movement, while ensuring that {Cj } remains close to the instantaneous contact point when ∥ ˙gj,ref ∥ is large. α ∈ R

is the geodesic speed threshold above which kj exceeds 95% 

of its maximum value, since  1 − e−3 ≈ 0.95 .To obtain the reference geodesic velocities ˙gj,ref , we solve the roll-slide contact kinematics equations without the normal-axis angular and linear elements [21] 

S Ad TC1C0 G0 (K0) −G1 (K1)  ˙g0,ref 

˙g1,ref 



= SV bL0L1,ref .Gj (Kj ) ∈ R6×2, j ∈ { 0, 1}, is the object’s or the finger body’s surface Jacobian as a function of the curvature tensor 

Kj ∈ R2×2 at pBj Cj [t], S ∈ R4×6 is a matrix of 0sand 1s extracting the non-normal elements of a twist, and 

SV bL0L1,ref = v⊺ 

> roll,ref

v⊺

> slide,ref

⊺. Using {C1}’s origin and normal axis as its action point and direction, respectively, an impedance controller will enable a finger to stably apply contact forces to the object. E. Software Implementation and Experimental Setup 

We implemented the motion planning and the contact es-timation pipelines as one framework in Drake [2]. We chose Drake for its hydroelastic contact model, as the pinch sub-assembly’s operation requires frictional torque, which point contact models struggle to handle. To enable hydroelastic contact, we tetrahedralized the triangular surface meshes of the bodies expected to make contact using Tetgen [28]. Then, we selected the x-axis as the GCFs’ normal axes, computed the hydroelastic contact surfaces’ centers of pressure as the instantaneous contact points, and obtained the GCFs’ origins and normals from signed distance and closest point queries between the contact points and the convex decompositions of the finger bodies’ and the object’s surface meshes [29]–[31]. The tangent axes of the finger bodies’ GCFs have their y-axes maximally aligned with the respective finger body’s joint axis, so absolute directions are maintained in the generalized contact tangent planes. Since a convex-decomposed body may contain multiple meshes and a geodesic may traverse them, we implemented an approximate geodesic tracer for the contact estimation pipeline by tracing an arc of the osculating circle. This approximation is close to true geodesic tracing when the geodesic traced is short, which is generally our case. The osculating circle is computed based on vertex-interpolated principal curvature values and directions [32]. To control a robotic hand with our framework, we im-plemented a teleoperation interface containing eight control sliders for each finger: 1) sub-assembly selector, 2) applied force magnitude, in terms of the impedance controller’s reference penetration distance, and 3)–8) the six scalars in the four reference relative contact velocities in (2). Additionally, the interface has six sliders for the reference object body twist, i.e., the V bP B 0 in (1), one slider for the object’s reduced-order reference speed, i.e., the s in (3), and six sliders for the palm’s twist, as we control the palm as a fully actuated floating base. We ran the simulation at 1 kHz and the framework at 500 Hz. The visualization updated at under 

20% of real-time speed, giving us sufficient time to decide on the teleoperation commands and react to the hand’s behavior. To evaluate our framework, we teleoperated five robotic hands in four experiments. The hands are: 1) Orca hand V2 [26], 2) Wuji hand [33], 3) Sharpa Wave [34], 4) custom A, a three-finger hand designed for power grasps, and 5) custom B, a five-finger hand designed based on the human hand’s anatomy. Fig. 2 (bottom) shows these hands’ numbers of DoFs per finger, with the thumb through pinky denoted as fingers 1–5, respectively. The weights in (2) are the same for all hands. The next section will detail the four experiments. IV. R ESULTS AND DISCUSSION 

A. Moving Around a Cylinder Without Contact 

In our first experiment, a cylinder stood on a table, and each hand was initialized in a pregrasp pose close to pinching the cylinder with fingers 1 and 2, as the first column for each hand in Fig. 3 shows. Then, we teleoperated finger 2 to move around the cylinder without contact by sequentially commanding a step trajectory to each scalar element of the reference relative contact velocities, while keeping all other elements at zero. The step magnitudes were 40 deg/s and 20 

mm/s for angular and linear velocities, respectively. Fig. 4 (top) shows the results. Despite the hands’ different kinematics, the framework enabled all hands to achieve similar Cartesian-space trajectories with decent tracking per-formance in terms of the ratio of the root mean squared errors to the commanded step magnitudes. The y-axis angular velocity and x-axis linear velocity were tracked most closely. This is because the GCF’s y-axis is maximally aligned with the finger body’s joint axis, and the GCF’s x-axis is the normal axis. Hence, these reference velocities cleanly correspond to the finger’s flexion and extension. Conversely, most hands exhibited the worst tracking performance for the 

x-axis angular velocity. This is because the finger has fewer than six DoFs and cannot satisfy all reference velocities simultaneously. To satisfy the non-zero reference x-axis angular velocity, the finger must adduct or abduct. However, any adduction or abduction would induce non-zero velocities in other axes, which are penalized. Sometimes, this type of coupling between angular and linear velocities can facilitate the finger’s movement rather than hindering it. For example, translation along the GCF’s 

z-axis induces rotation about the y-axis. Hence, a single non-zero z-axis reference linear velocity enables the finger to trace the cylinder’s surface at a constant distance and switch sides relative to the cylinder, as the finger moves into and out of the space between the cylinder and the palm. 

B. Picking Up and Manipulating a Cylinder as Effector 

In our second experiment, each hand picked up the cylin-der in a pinch and manipulated it in-hand as the HOM’s effector based on simple step references. Specifically, we selected the pinch sub-assembly for fingers 1 and 2, and moved them toward the cylinder by commanding a positive 

vsep,ref . With the anti-integral windup, the fingers stopped just before contacting the cylinder. Then, we commanded a constant pinching force and moved the palm up, letting the fingers grasp the cylinder and lift it off the table, as the second column for each hand in Fig. 3 shows. Next, we set the weights wroll in (2) to zero to allow rolling, and commanded a step trajectory to each scalar element of the reference object body twist with the same angular and linear magnitudes as in the first experiment, while keeping all other elements at zero. The reference relative contact velocities were also set to zero. The fingers translated and rotated the cylinder along and about each axis of the cylinder’s body frame by rolling on the cylinder’s surface, while minimizing sliding and spinning to facilitate a stable grasp. Fig. 4 (middle) shows the results. The framework enabled all hands to manipulate the cylinder as the HOM’s effector, with reasonable tracking performance for object body lin-ear velocity. For object body angular velocity, the x- and 

z-trajectories mostly follow the step references but have smaller magnitudes. The y-axis angular velocity’s tracking Fig. 3: Snapshots of the experiment of picking up a cylinder, rotating it about the pinch axis via control of the single scalar 

s in (3), and forming a tripod grasp, along with the human hand performing the same task as a reference. Push Pull Switch Sides Switch Sides Form Tripod Push Pull Switch Sides Switch Sides Form Tripod Push Pull Switch Sides Switch Sides Form Tripod Push Pull Switch Sides Switch Sides Form Tripod Push Pull Switch Sides Switch Sides Form Tripod 

Fig. 4: Trajectories from the three quantitative experiments. (Top block) Moving finger 2 around a cylinder without contact. (Middle block) Picking up and manipulating a cylinder based on its body twist. (Bottom block) Rotating a cylinder about the pinch axis and forming a tripod grasp. The 3-vectors on the left and right of each hand’s name next to the “—” are the root mean squared errors (RMSEs) for angular and linear velocity tracking, respectively, over the entire trajectory. The RMSEs in the top, middle, and bottom blocks are for relative contact velocities, object body velocities, and object pinch velocities, respectively. In each block, the plots on the same row and column share the same vertical and horizontal ticks and scales, respectively. All plots’ horizontal axes represent time. appears worse and shows noticeable crosstalk in translations along the x- and z-axes. This is because the cylinder’s body frame y-axis is nearly parallel to the pinch axis, and the con-tact points themselves cannot rotate the cylinder. To satisfy a non-zero y-axis reference angular velocity while keeping other velocity elements at zero, the fingers compensated by translating the cylinder along the x- and z-axes. When moving the cylinder, all hands exhibited noticeable relative contact angular velocities about the y- and z-axes, but small relative contact linear velocities along these axes. This means that the fingers maintained a stable grasp by rolling on the cylinder’s surface with little sliding. Moreover, since the cylinder’s body frame z-axis is its longitudinal axis, the simple step reference of the z-axis angular velocity yielded the fingers’ dexterous twisting motions for all hands, similar to how a human hand turns a screwdriver. This demonstrates our framework’s effectiveness in generating dexterous motions from even identical, simple commands for hands with different kinematics and geometries. 

C. Rotating a Cylinder About the Pinch Axis and Forming a Tripod Grasp 

In our third experiment, each hand picked up the cylinder with fingers 1 and 2 in a pinch to form a revolute joint. Then, finger 3 entered a pusher sub-assembly and rotated the cylinder about the pinch axis in both directions. This motion is commonly used by humans to load a tool. Specifically, we let finger 3 push and rotate the cylinder away from the palm by commanding a step reference trajec-tory of 40 deg/s to the reduced-order reference speed s in (3). After finger 3 was almost fully extended, we negated the step reference; finger 3 maintained contact with the cylinder as the cylinder rotated back to a vertical pose by gravity. Then, we controlled the relative contact velocities to let finger 3 break contact, switch sides relative to the cylinder, make contact, and repeat the rotation cycle by pulling the cylinder toward the palm. Lastly, finger 3 switched sides, pushed the cylinder away from the palm again, and coordinated with fingers 1 and 2 to form a tripod grasp of the cylinder. Fig. 3 shows the entire process. All other setups were identical to the second experiment, except that the weights wspin in (2) were set to zero for the two pinching fingers to allow spinning. Fig. 4 (bottom) shows the quantitative results. The object pinch velocities refer to the velocities in the V bP M term in (3), which should have all elements at zero except the x-axis angular element if the cylinder purely rotates about the pinch axis. The plotted relative contact velocities are for finger 3, the pusher finger. All hands achieved reasonable tracking of the reference object pinch velocities, while exhibiting small relative contact linear velocities when the cylinder was rotating. This means that finger 3 acted as the actuator for the revolute joint formed by the pinch, and mainly rolled on the cylinder with little sliding during the rotation cycles. This result was accomplished via the simple step references of the single scalar s in (3), again demonstrating our framework’s effectiveness in generating dexterous motions from even identical, simple commands for different hands. 

D. Picking Up, Loading, and Wielding a Screwdriver 

In our fourth experiment, we leveraged all techniques from the previous experiments to demonstrate our framework by teleoperating each hand to pick up, load, and wield a precision screwdriver with non-convex geometries [1]. Fig. 1 shows this demonstration. Specifically, fingers 1 and 3 picked up the screwdriver from a table in a pinch with a pinching force large enough to immobilize it in-hand. After lifting the screwdriver clear of the table, fingers 1 and 3 reduced their pinching force, letting the screwdriver rotate about their pinch axis to a vertical pose by gravity. Then, finger 2 con-tacted the screwdriver and rotated it about the pinch axis to align it perpendicular to the table via teleoperation of s in (3); the palm moved down until the screwdriver’s tip contacted the table. Next, finger 2 pressed the screwdriver against the table, stabilizing it; fingers 1 and 3 turned the screwdriver counterclockwise via teleoperation of the reference object body angular velocity about the screwdriver’s longitudinal axis. This first turn had a limited motion range since the two contacts were directly opposite from each other. Thus, fingers 1 and 3 retracted to an offset pose ready for another turn by breaking contact and moving clockwise around the screwdriver. After the retraction, fingers 1 and 3 contacted the screwdriver and turned it again. This retract-turn cycle repeated multiple times. This demonstration showcases the level of dexterity that our framework can enable different hands to achieve. More-over, since our framework requires only the hand’s and the object’s kinematics and geometries, setting up a new hand, a new object, or a new scene is plug-and-play. In fact, for custom B, the entire process from configuring the kinematic models and tetrahedralizing the meshes to completing the screwdriver demonstration took less than five hours. 

E. Limitations and Future Work 

To generate high-quality manipulations with our frame-work, the hand must start from suitable pregrasp poses. This is because the constraints (1) are non-holonomic, so the motion planner (2) is velocity-based. In this work, we teleoperated the hands to reach the pregrasp poses based on heuristics. However, in general autonomous settings, reach-ing high-quality pregrasp poses is non-trivial. This limitation can be addressed by augmenting our framework with existing grasp synthesis pipelines and poses from human hand grasp datasets [4], [35]–[38]. The experimental results demonstrated our framework’s effectiveness and adaptability to different hands in simula-tion. Next, we plan to implement our framework on real-world hardware. The computational methods and software our framework utilizes are lightweight and have existing real-time solutions. However, we expect the challenge to come from contact sensing. We plan to explore sensing methods that can estimate the center of pressure at a high rate, such as intrinsic tactile sensing [39], [40]. Meanwhile, we plan to combine contact sensing with motion capture into a sensor fusion pipeline similar to our contact estimation pipeline to improve overall sensing quality. V. C ONCLUSIONS 

This work presents a framework for enabling general multi-finger robotic hands to perform the complete pick-load-wield tool manipulation process. The key idea behind the framework is to consider the hand and the tool as a single parallel mechanism, and control each finger based on its respective sub-assembly. The framework’s technical core is to isolate the normal and tangential relative velocities between each finger and the tool in Cartesian space with the generalized contact frames, and compute each finger’s refer-ence joint velocities via least squares. Meanwhile, a comple-mentary filter ensures stable contact force control by fusing contact point measurements into a process model based on rigid body roll-slide contact kinematics and geodesic tracing. We evaluated our framework in simulation by teleoperat-ing five robotic hands to manipulate a cylinder. The results show that our framework enabled all five hands to manipulate the cylinder as if each hand formed a parallel mechanism with it, and to achieve dexterous behaviors from even identi-cal, simple reference trajectories, despite the hands’ different kinematics and geometries. Then, we showcased our frame-work by teleoperating each hand to pick up, load, and wield a precision screwdriver. All five hands accomplished the task with fine, dexterous motions. These results demonstrate our framework’s effectiveness and adaptability to different hands, motivating its future implementation on real-world hardware. REFERENCES [1] 4 FN 27, “41544 Craftsman Precision Screwdriver Set Assy 3DP,” 2024, accessed July 7 2026. [Online]. Available: https://grabcad.com/ library/41544-craftsman-precision-screwdriver-set-assy-3dp-1 [2] R. Tedrake and the Drake Development Team, “Drake: Model-based design and verification for robotics,” 2019. [Online]. Available: https://drake.mit.edu [3] S. Wang, J. Oh, and N. S. Pollard, “The foundational pose as a selection mechanism for the design of tool-wielding multi-finger robotic hands,” in 2025 IEEE-RAS 24th International Conference on Humanoid Robots (Humanoids) , 2025, pp. 01–08. [4] S. Brahmbhatt, A. Handa, J. Hays, and D. Fox, “Contactgrasp: Func-tional multi-finger grasp synthesis from contact,” in 2019 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) ,2019, pp. 2386–2393. [5] L. U. Odhner and A. M. Dollar, “Stable, open-loop precision manipulation with underactuated hands,” The International Journal of Robotics Research , vol. 34, no. 11, pp. 1347–1360, 2015. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1177/0278364914558494 [6] N. Rojas and A. M. Dollar, “Gross motion analysis of fingertip-based within-hand manipulation,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics , vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 1009–1016, 2016. [7] J. Borr` as and A. M. Dollar, “Analyzing dexterous hands using a parallel robots framework,” Auton. Robots , vol. 36, no. 1–2, p. 169–180, Jan. 2014. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10514-013-9380-x [8] C. McCann, V. Patel, and A. Dollar, “The stewart hand: A highly dexterous, six-degrees-of-freedom manipulator based on the stewart-gough platform,” IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine , vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 23–36, 2021. [9] V. Patel and A. Dollar, “Combining grasping and rotation with a spherical robot hand mechanism,” Nature Machine Intelligence , vol. 7, pp. 999–1009, 07 2025. [10] O. ACAR, H. SA ˘ GLAM, and Z. S¸ AKA, “Evaluation of grasp capability of a gripper driven by optimal spherical mechanism,” 

Mechanism and Machine Theory , vol. 166, p. 104486, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ S0094114X21002433 [11] H. Kocabas, “Gripper design with spherical parallelogram mechanism,” Journal of Mechanical Design , vol. 131, no. 7, p. 075001, 05 2009. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1115/1.3125891 [12] J. M. K. Elliott and K. J. Connolly, “A classification of manipulative hand movements,” Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology ,vol. 26, 1984. [Online]. Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/ CorpusID:44438380 [13] M. Santello, M. Flanders, and J. F. Soechting, “Postural hand synergies for tool use,” Journal of Neuroscience , vol. 18, no. 23, pp. 10 105–10 115, 1998. [Online]. Available: https://www.jneurosci.org/ content/18/23/10105 [14] E. J. Weiss and M. Flanders, “Muscular and postural synergies of the human hand,” Journal of Neurophysiology , vol. 92, no. 1, pp. 523–535, 2004, pMID: 14973321. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1152/jn.01265.2003 [15] M. Latash, V. Krishnamoorthy, J. Scholz, and V. Zatsiorsky, “Postural synergies and their development,” Neural plasticity , vol. 12, pp. 119– 30; discussion 263, 02 2005. [16] T. Iberall, G. P. Bingham, and M. A. Arbib, “Opposition space as a structuring concept for the analysis of skilled hand movements,” 1986. [Online]. Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID: 128008846 [17] M. A. Arbib, “Coordinated control programs for movements of the hand,” Experimental Brain Research , vol. 10, pp. 111–129, 1985. [Online]. Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID: 142616211 [18] T. Iberall, “Human prehension and dexterous robot hands,” The International Journal of Robotics Research , vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 285–299, 1997. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1177/ 027836499701600302 [19] Z. Gu, J. Li, W. Shen, W. Yu, Z. Xie, S. McCrory, X. Cheng, A. Shamsah, R. Griffin, C. K. Liu, A. Kheddar, X. B. Peng, Y. Zhu, G. Shi, Q. Nguyen, G. Cheng, H. Gao, and Y. Zhao, “Humanoid loco-motion and manipulation: Current progress and challenges in control, planning, and learning,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics ,2025. [20] O. Kroemer, S. Niekum, and G. Konidaris, “A review of robot learn-ing for manipulation: challenges, representations, and algorithms,” J. Mach. Learn. Res. , vol. 22, no. 1, Jan. 2021. [21] S. Wang, A. S. Lakshmipathy, J. Oh, and N. S. Pollard, “Geodesic tracing-based kinematic integration of rolling and sliding contact on manifold meshes for dexterous in-hand manipulation,” in 2025 IEEE-RAS 24th International Conference on Humanoid Robots (Hu-manoids) , 2025, pp. 1–9. [22] F. Yang, T. Power, S. A. Marinovic, S. Iba, R. S. Zarrin, and D. Berenson, “Multi-finger manipulation via trajectory optimization with differentiable rolling and geometric constraints,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters , vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 5170–5177, 2025. [23] L. Tang, Y.-B. Jia, and Y. Xue, “Robotic manipulation of hand tools: The case of screwdriving,” in 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , 2024, pp. 13 883–13 890. [24] X. Cheng, E. Huang, Y. Hou, and M. T. Mason, “Contact mode guided motion planning for quasidynamic dexterous manipulation in 3d,” in 

2022 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) ,2022, pp. 2730–2736. [25] A. von Felbert, “The universal approximation theorem,” https://www.deep-mind.org/2023/03/26/the-universal-approximation-theorem/#Neurons as Functionals, mar 2023, accessed July 20 2026. [26] Orca Dexterity, “Orcahand Description,” 2026, accessed July 7 2026. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/orcahand/orcahand description [27] V.-D. Nguyen, “Constructing force- closure grasps,” The International Journal of Robotics Research , vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 3–16, 1988. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1177/027836498800700301 [28] A. Kaszynski, “tetgen,” 2026. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ pyvista/tetgen [29] M. Dawnson-Haggerty, “python-fcl.” [Online]. Available: https: //github.com/BerkeleyAutomation/python-fcl [30] R. Sawhney, “Fcpw: Fastest closest points in the west,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/rohan-sawhney/fcpw [31] X. Wei, “Approximate Convex Decomposition for 3D Meshes with Collision-Aware Concavity and Tree Search [SIGGRAPH2022],” 2026. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/SarahWeiii/CoACD [32] A. Jacobson, “libigl Python Bindings,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/libigl/libigl-python-bindings [33] Wuji Technologies, “wuji description,” 2026, accessed July 72026. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/wuji-technology/wuji-description [34] Sharpa Robotics, “Sharpa Wave Hand URDF USD and XML Files,” 2026, accessed July 7 2026. [Online]. Available: https: //github.com/sharpa-robotics/sharpa-urdf-usd-xml [35] J. Bohg, A. Morales, T. Asfour, and D. Kragic, “Data-driven grasp synthesis—a survey,” Trans. Rob. , vol. 30, no. 2, p. 289–309, Apr. 2014. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/TRO.2013.2289018 [36] J. Chen, Y. Ke, L. Peng, and H. Wang, “Dexonomy: Synthesizing all dexterous grasp types in a grasp taxonomy,” Robotics: Science and Systems , 2025. [37] Z. Fan, O. Taheri, D. Tzionas, M. Kocabas, M. Kaufmann, M. J. Black, and O. Hilliges, “ARCTIC: A dataset for dexterous bimanual hand-object manipulation,” in Proceedings IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , 2023. [38] S. Brahmbhatt, C. Tang, C. D. Twigg, C. C. Kemp, and J. Hays, “Contactpose: A dataset of grasps with object contact and hand pose,” in Computer Vision – ECCV 2020 , A. Vedaldi, H. Bischof, T. Brox, and J.-M. Frahm, Eds. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2020, pp. 361–378. [39] H. Liu, K. C. Nguyen, V. Perdereau, J. Bimbo, J. Back, M. Godden, L. D. Seneviratne, and K. Althoefer, “Finger contact sensing and the application in dexterous hand manipulation,” Autonomous Robots , vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 25–41, jun 2015. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10514-015-9425-4 [40] A. Bicchi, J. K. Salisbury, and D. L. Brock, “Contact sensing from force measurements,” The International Journal of Robotics Research , vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 249–262, 1993. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1177/027836499301200304