FUDAN
UNIVERSITY
UniWAM Technical Report: Unified Mobile Manipulation via Mixed-Stream
World-Action Modeling and Manipulation Anchor Pose Supervision
Wei Xue∗, Keliang Liu∗, Mingzhang Cui, Jinhua Xie, Jinjie Wei, Jianan Hou, Jingcheng Lu,
Lintao Wang, Kaixiang Qiu, Yizhou Liu, Xinghai Ye, Jinghang Han, Mingcheng Li, Jie Gu,
Shunli Wang, Lihua Zhang§, Dingkang Yang†,§
Physical Superintelligence Lab, Fysics AI
College of Intelligent Robotics and Advanced Manufacturing, Fudan University
∗Equal contribution; order decided by a coin flip, †Project lead, §Corresponding author
Abstract
Mobile manipulation requires precise navigation to a manipulation-ready pose followed by reliable object
interaction. These two stages differ in action spaces and visual requirements, which complicates unified
policy learning. In addition, collecting diverse real-world navigation data with explicit manipulation-ready
pose supervision remains costly and difficult to scale. We introduce UniWAM, a unified mixed-stream
world-action model with separate action encoders and output heads for navigation and manipulation, sharing a
common backbone. This design supports joint representation learning on independently sampled navigation
and manipulation data. UniWAM supports independent inference for either stream and batch-parallel
inference for both. We further introduce Manipulation Anchor Pose (MAP) supervision for where to stop and
how to orient for manipulation. An automated pipeline constructs MAP-Data from large-scale 3D scenes,
yielding over 1.5 million episodes and 7,500 hours. MAP-Data provides per-frame target-object bounding
boxes and image-plane MAP coordinates as auxiliary navigation supervision. Together with projected
end-effector trajectories for manipulation, these prediction targets provide stream-specific image-plane
supervision for action learning from egocentric observations. With large-scale MAP-Data, UniWAM
outperforms the strongest external baselines on our MAP-Bench by 30.1% in position error and 44.0% in
heading error. Across 24 real-robot tasks, UniWAM achieves leading results in MAP navigation and mobile
manipulation, with competitive manipulation performance. We have released code, data, and benchmark.
Date: September 3, 2026
Corresponding: wxue24@m.fudan.edu.cn, klliu25@m.fudan.edu.cn, dkyang20@fudan.edu.cn,
lihuazhang@fudan.edu.cn
Project Page: https://fysics-ai.github.io/uniwam.github.io/
Github: https://github.com/Fysics-AI/UniWAM
Hugging Face: https://huggingface.co/Fysics-AI/UniWAM
https://huggingface.co/datasets/Fysics-AI/MAP-Data
https://huggingface.co/datasets/Fysics-AI/MAP-Bench
1
Introduction
Mobile manipulation requires a robot to move through an environment and interact precisely with objects after arrival.
Compared with navigation or fixed-base manipulation alone, mobile manipulation supports a much broader range of
tasks, such as fetching an item from another room or clearing a table in a different part of a house [13, 39]. However,
navigation and manipulation differ in both what they need to observe and how they act. Navigation needs a forward view
1
arXiv:2609.39388v1  [cs.RO]  30 Sep 2026


Mobile Manipulation
Precise navigation
Reliable manipulation
Existing Approaches and Challenges
A.  Where to stop for manipulation
Coarse semantic goals
Navigate to a target region
A broad goal region, but no specific pose or 
heading for manipulation.
Implicit pose learning
Learn from mobile-manipulation trajectories
···
Manipulation-ready poses are learned only implicitly from 
costly complete mobile-manipulation trajectories.
B.  How to model navigation and manipulation
Separate policies
Navigation
policy
Manipulation
policy
Handoff errors
Joint action prediction
Different visual requirements
Nav. view
Manip. view
Different action spaces
Navigation action
Manipulation action
···
Heterogeneous actions in a unified 
prediction
Our Approach
Nav. / Manip. 
Views
Independent sampling
& packing
Manipulation 
encoder
Manipulation Anchor Pose
Explicit MAP 
supervision
MAP-Data
1.5M+ episodes 
7.5K hours
MAP Position
MAP Heading
VAE encoder
Navigation 
encoder
Navigation rows
Manipulation
rows
Video DiT
Action DiT
MoT
VAE decoder
Navigation head
Manipulation head
3D scenes
Video loss
Navigation 
loss
Manipulation 
loss
∆x
∆y
𝑎!
𝑎" 𝑎#
∆𝜃
Unified mixed-stream WAM
Errors propagate across separately built modules.
Figure 1 Challenges of mobile manipulation and our approach. Existing unified policies either share one action representation across
navigation and manipulation or separate the two only inside the action module, and they learn where to stop only implicitly from costly
complete trajectories. UniWAM models navigation and manipulation as separate streams over a shared backbone, and MAP-Data
supervises the manipulation-ready pose at scale with automatically generated trajectories.
of the scene ahead, including distant targets and free space, whereas manipulation needs detailed views of the local
workspace, often from downward-facing and wrist cameras [7, 35, 48]. Their action signals also differ in frequency.
Base motion varies slowly and smoothly over long distances, whereas arm and gripper motion changes rapidly near
contact [48]. A single policy for both behaviors must reconcile two visual requirements and two action spaces.
Research on mobile manipulation mainly follows two routes, namely modular systems and unified models. Modular
systems train navigation and manipulation policies separately and connect them at execution time [31]. This handoff adds
an interface between the two policies and can propagate errors from one module to the next [31, 48]. Unified models
instead learn the complete mobile-manipulation process end to end within a single policy. Recent unified approaches
build on vision-language-action (VLA) models [2, 23] and world-action models (WAMs) [12, 41] to predict navigation
and manipulation actions within a shared model and a shared training pipeline.
Unified mobile manipulation still faces two linked challenges, illustrated in Fig. 1. The first is architectural. A shared
action token for navigation and manipulation [2, 3] ignores their heterogeneous visual observations, action spaces, and
control rates. Separate action experts [9] decouple the action spaces, yet both designs still jointly supervise both action
targets within the same training sample. Because mobile manipulation is largely sequential, the arm is mostly idle
during navigation and the base is mostly idle during manipulation. Joint supervision thus spends much of the training
on stationary commands, ties the sampling of the two behaviors to complete trajectories, and prevents direct use of
navigation-only or manipulation-only data, which are far easier to collect.
The second challenge concerns data and follows from the first. Existing unified models learn the manipulation-ready
terminal pose only implicitly from complete trajectories, so they require large-scale mobile-manipulation data, which are
costly to collect [33, 47]. Without such data, a policy may reach the target but stop at an unsuitable position or heading,
and the subsequent manipulation then fails [36]. Semantic navigation data scale better, but they specify only target
proximity, not the terminal pose required for manipulation [15].
To address the first challenge, we propose UniWAM, a mixed-stream world-action model with separate navigation and
manipulation streams. Each stream has its own visual inputs, action encoder, and output head over shared video and
action DiTs. The two streams are sampled independently and packed as separate batch rows without cross-row attention,
so each sample supervises only its own stream. Navigation-only, manipulation-only, and mobile-manipulation data can
2


all be used directly, and either stream runs alone or both run in one batch at deployment.
To address the second challenge, we introduce the Manipulation Anchor Pose (MAP), the base position and heading at
which navigation should end for manipulation. Unlike floor affordances, candidate base placements, or pose preferences
learned from rollouts [6, 8, 43, 45], MAP is an explicit target that can be generated automatically and supervises the
entire approach trajectory. We build MAP-Data from large-scale indoor 3D scenes with an automated pipeline, yielding
over 1.5 million navigation episodes and 7,500 hours annotated with per-frame target bounding boxes and image-plane
MAP coordinates. We hold out a subset of its targets as MAP-Bench for evaluating MAP navigation. Because the
streams are sampled independently, UniWAM trains its navigation stream directly on MAP-Data, which supervises where
to stop for mobile manipulation explicitly and at scale. Together with projected end-effector trajectories for manipulation,
the bounding boxes and MAP coordinates serve as image-plane auxiliary targets for the two streams [25, 37].
Our contributions are:
• We propose UniWAM, a mixed-stream world-action model that learns navigation and manipulation as two independently
sampled streams over a shared backbone.
• We define the Manipulation Anchor Pose (MAP) and generate MAP-Data, over 1.5M episodes labeled with MAP
and target boxes. To our knowledge, it is the largest dataset for manipulation-oriented navigation. We hold out
MAP-Bench, a leakage-free benchmark for MAP navigation.
• We evaluate UniWAM on MAP-Bench and 24 real-robot tasks. Through mixed training on MAP-Data and diverse
manipulation data, UniWAM outperforms pretrained baselines, reducing position and heading errors by 30.1% and
44.0% and raising mobile-manipulation success by 17.5 points.
2
Related Work
Unified mobile-manipulation models. Most unified policies predict base, arm, and gripper commands through a shared
action representation. RT-1 adds base motion to arm control and selects the controlled component with a discrete mode
variable [5]. Mobile ALOHA concatenates bimanual joint positions with base linear and angular velocities into one
action vector [13]. VLA models such as 𝜋0 [4], 𝜋0.5 [3], GR00T [2], and Xiaomi-Robotics-1 [32] follow the same
interface. They predict all degrees of freedom in one action chunk and use navigation-only or manipulation-only data
only by zero-padding or masking the absent dimensions. This design learns coordinated behavior, but one action token
must cover navigation and manipulation despite their different visual inputs, action spaces, and control rates, and each
sample from a complete trajectory supervises both behaviors, including the idle one. World-action models (WAMs) build
on video generation models to jointly predict future visual states and actions [1, 16, 17, 22, 38, 41]. Most WAMs target
fixed-base manipulation. ABot-M0.5 [9] and MobileWAM [12] extend them to mobile manipulation. ABot-M0.5 assigns
base and manipulation actions to separate sub-towers within a dual-level mixture-of-transformers. MobileWAM attaches
an action expert to a pretrained video diffusion transformer, routes its feed-forward layers across shared, locomotion, and
manipulation experts, and supervises future latents with Chain-of-Foresight. Both methods separate navigation and
manipulation only within the action module. The two behaviors still share visual inputs, and each sample still supervises
both. Cross-embodiment policies such as CrossFormer [11] and HPT [28] use embodiment-specific tokenizers or stems
and action heads over a shared trunk, so each sample supervises the action space of one robot. They separate different
robots, however, not the navigation and manipulation phases of one mobile manipulator, and they have neither a video
world model nor an explicit terminal pose. UniWAM applies this separation within one mobile manipulator. Each stream
has its own visual inputs, action encoder, and output head and is sampled independently, while both streams share the
video and action DiTs. It further combines this design with a video world model and explicit MAP supervision. Table 1
summarizes these differences across views, sampling, world modeling, and terminal-pose supervision.
Manipulation-oriented navigation. Unlike semantic navigation, which only requires reaching the vicinity of a
target [15, 42], manipulation-oriented navigation must find a base position and heading that support the next interaction.
Existing methods fall into three groups. The first searches for feasible base placements from arm reachability [26]. The
second learns manipulation-ready locations from labeled or executed data, including floor affordance maps [43, 45],
grasp-aware base placement [8], and pose preferences learned from manipulation rollouts [6]. The third infers the base
pose at test time by optimizing compatibility with a manipulation policy [36] or by reasoning with vision-language
models [30, 44]. These methods output candidate poses, affordance regions, or placement scores for a specific robot,
3


Table 1 Comparison with recent unified mobile-manipulation models and cross-embodiment policies. The first three are VLA
policies, the next two are world-action models, and the last two are cross-embodiment policies, which separate different robots rather
than the navigation and manipulation phases of one mobile manipulator. Separate views: navigation and manipulation receive different
camera inputs. One behavior per sample: a training sample can supervise one behavior alone without padding or masking. Video
world model: the model predicts future video. Explicit terminal pose: the terminal base pose for manipulation is supervised directly.
Model
Action generator
Separate
views
One behavior
per sample
Video world
model
Explicit
terminal pose
𝜋0.5 [3]
single action expert for all degrees of freedom
✗
✗
✗
✗
GR00T N1.7 [2]
single action head for all degrees of freedom
✗
✗
✗
✗
Xiaomi-Robotics-1 [32]
single action head for all degrees of freedom
✗
✗
✗
✗
ABot-M0.5 [9]
action stream with mobility and manipulation sub-towers
✗
✗
✓
✗
MobileWAM [12]
action expert with routed locomotion and manipulation experts
✗
✗
✓
✗
CrossFormer [11]
shared transformer with embodiment-specific action heads
✓
✓
✗
✗
HPT [28]
shared trunk with embodiment-specific stems and heads
✓
✓
✗
✗
UniWAM
shared action DiT with separate stream interfaces
✓
✓
✓
✓
Table 2 Comparison of MAP-Data with methods for manipulation-ready base placement. Supervises approach: the labels cover the
entire approach trajectory rather than only a terminal pose or a score for a given scene. Scale is the amount of labeled data reported in
each paper, and a dash denotes methods that do not learn from a dataset, such as kinematic search or test-time optimization.
Method
Output
Label source
Supervises
approach
Scale
Reachability inversion [26]
feasible base poses
arm kinematics
✗
–
MoMa-Kitchen [43]
floor affordance map
simulation
✗
127K episodes
FloAff-Kitchen [45]
floor affordance map
simulation
✗
24.8K observations
GBPP [8]
scores of candidate base poses
rule labels and simulation trials
✗
180K rule and 12K simulation labels
N2M [6]
distribution over base poses
policy rollouts
✗
12 to 15 rollouts per task
Mobi-𝜋[36]
base pose for a given policy
test-time optimization
✗
–
MAP-Data
terminal pose, per-frame box and MAP labels
scene geometry and a VLM
✓
1.5M episodes
policy, or scene. None of them supervises the approach trajectory that leads to the chosen pose. As a result, navigation
data that explicitly supervise the manipulation-ready terminal pose along entire approach trajectories remain scarce,
although such supervision is essential for learning where to stop. We define this terminal pose as the MAP and generate
MAP-Data from large-scale indoor 3D scenes. MAP-Data supervises the entire approach with an explicit terminal pose
and dense image-plane labels. The largest prior dataset, MoMa-Kitchen with 127K episodes, is about one-twelfth the
size of MAP-Data with its 1.5M episodes. Table 2 compares them in output, label source, and scale.
3
Method
This section first defines the MAP and describes how MAP-Data and MAP-Bench are built (Sec. 3.1). It then presents
UniWAM, including its stream interfaces, mixed-stream batch packing, independent stream sampling, image-plane
auxiliary supervision, training objective, and implementation (Sec. 3.2).
3.1
MAP: Manipulation Anchor Pose
Existing representations of manipulation-ready base placement are specific to a robot, policy, or scene and do not
supervise the approach trajectory [6, 43]. We instead make the terminal base pose an explicit target and generate
approach trajectories toward it at scale, which yields dense supervision for every step of the approach.
MAP definition. For a manipulation target 𝑜𝑖, its Manipulation Anchor Pose (MAP) is m𝑖= (pMAP
𝑖
, 𝜃MAP
𝑖
), where
pMAP
𝑖
∈R2 and 𝜃MAP
𝑖
∈S1 denote the base position and heading. The MAP explicitly specifies where the robot should
stop and how it should orient for manipulation. Because it is defined by scene geometry rather than by a particular
manipulation policy, it can be computed automatically for any target in a 3D scene.
Scene sources and target curation. MAP-Data is built from HM3D and HM3D-Semantics [24, 34], InteriorGS [20], and
a large in-house scene corpus. As illustrated in Fig. 2, the pipeline has three stages. Stage S1 converts these heterogeneous
4


Rich, Diverse, Realistic Indoor Environments
LARGE-SCALE 3D SCENE CORPUS
107.4K m2
Metric Scene Coverage
Semantic Objects
72.1K
MULTI-STAGE DATA CURATION
LARGE-SCALE DATASET & BENCHMARK
Semantic Validity Filtering
1
Geometry & Visual Filtering
2
Rejected
Wall, ceiling,
duplicate, etc.
Retained
Stove, door, 
cabinet, etc.
Semantic Validity
Manipulation 
Affordance
Base-Placement 
Feasibility
1-Table 
Multimodal Data Synthesis
1-chair 
2-chair
1-bed 
2-Cabinet
VLM Filtering
3D scene
Region-Level 
Multimodal Prompt
Geometry Quality Check
2D Visual
Quality Check
Rejected
Curated 
Objects
Retained
Quality score >𝜏
Holes, Artifacts, …
Object
Meshes
…
…
…
MAP Generation
1
word cloud of objects
VLM Check
Object 
Visibility
Render 
Fidelity
Feasible Observation Poses
2
Multimodal 
Prompt
Front-Surface
Grounding
…
…
Geometric 
Computation
Front Edge
MAP heading
MAP Position
…
Navigable 
Region
1 Object IDs
Candidate
Region
Observation-Pose Filtering
Episode Examples
Rejected
Retained
1.5M+
Episodes
7.5K+
Hours
12K+
Objects
±70 deg
0.2m-5m
580K+
Obs. Poses
15K
Trajectories
0.3K
Objects
Evaluation
Split
Evaluation 
Metrics
Position
Error
Heading
Error
Trajectory Synthesis
1
2
RGB Video
Actions
MAP + BBox Labels
Outside navigable region
Angle/distance violation
. .
Reachable & collision-free
Geometric constraints satisfied
. .
Observation Headings
& MAP Targets
Curve-Based
Trajectory Synthesis
Observation-Heading Diversity
MAP Target Diversity
Feasible · Smooth · Goal-directed
S1. Large-Scale Object Curation
S2. Geometric Annotation
S3. Trajectory & Data Synthesis
MAP-Data
MAP-bench
Training 
Split
35K+
Episodes
0.3K
Objects
133+
Hours
Manipulation Anchor Pose 
	)	
%'!(!%$&&%&#
		
!$ &&%& 
$!'
$!"
'(
	

$!!
$(&$	
	

	

Figure 2 Overview of MAP-Data and MAP-Bench. From large-scale indoor 3D scenes, S1 curates valid target objects, S2 annotates
each target with a MAP and feasible observation poses, and S3 synthesizes approach trajectories with RGB video, actions, and MAP
and box labels. MAP-Bench evaluates position and heading errors from held-out initial poses.
sources into a common representation of target instances, navigable regions, and renderable observations. Mesh-based
scenes undergo geometry and navigability checks, whereas Gaussian-splatting scenes are validated through occupancy
maps and rendered observations. For sources without object-instance annotations, semantic instance segmentation
supplies candidate target masks. Candidate targets then pass four filters. Semantic filtering verifies that the instance
matches the task condition and is uniquely identifiable. Geometry filtering rejects incomplete target surfaces and
corrupted scene regions. Base-placement filtering requires collision-free navigable space near the manipulation-facing
surface. Visibility and rendering filtering removes targets that cannot be observed reliably from feasible camera poses or
that produce invalid rendered views, and the remaining targets proceed to MAP generation.
MAP and observation-pose generation. Stage S2 constructs the MAP of each target and a set of feasible observation
poses. A vision-language model identifies the manipulation-facing front edge of the target. Let p 𝑓be the ground-plane
midpoint of this edge and n 𝑓its unit normal pointing toward navigable space. Denoting the clearance-aware navigable
region by Fnav, the MAP position and heading are
pMAP = Ray(p 𝑓, n 𝑓) ∩𝜕Fnav,
𝜃MAP = atan2

(p 𝑓−pMAP)𝑦, (p 𝑓−pMAP)𝑥

.
(1)
The intersection of the ray with the boundary of the navigable region determines where the base stops, and the heading
makes the robot face the target surface. Observation poses are sampled independently across target distance, bearing,
and camera heading. They are retained only when the base lies in navigable free space, satisfies collision and geometric
constraints, and provides a valid view of the target. Sampling observation poses separately from the MAP diversifies the
initial states while keeping the terminal target fixed for all trajectories of a target.
Trajectory synthesis. Stage S3 connects each retained observation pose to its MAP by a single-segment or multi-segment
cubic B´ezier trajectory. A segment with control points {c 𝑗}3
𝑗=0 is
q(𝑠) = (1 −𝑠)3c0 + 3(1 −𝑠)2𝑠c1 + 3(1 −𝑠)𝑠2c2 + 𝑠3c3,
𝑠∈[0, 1].
(2)
5


The control points preserve the initial motion direction and terminate at the MAP with the prescribed heading. If a direct
curve is obstructed, A* [14] provides a collision-free corridor that guides piecewise fitting. A trajectory is retained
only if it remains within the clearance-aware navigation mask, approaches the target from the annotated side, keeps the
manipulation-facing boundary within the horizontal field of view, and satisfies curvature and path-length constraints.
Trajectories with excessive backtracking or an inaccurate terminal position or heading are rejected.
Synchronized geometric labels. At each trajectory step, the renderer records the egocentric RGB observation and the
planar navigation action. The MAP position is projected into the current camera as
uMAP
𝑡
= Π

𝑇𝑐𝑡←𝑤
𝑥MAP
𝑦MAP
𝑧MAP
1⊤
,
(3)
where 𝑇𝑐𝑡←𝑤maps world coordinates to the camera frame and Π applies the camera intrinsics and perspective division.
Target-instance masks are converted to image-plane bounding boxes. RGB frames, navigation actions, projected
MAP coordinates, target boxes, scene and target identifiers, and quality flags are stored with the same timestamps for
frame-level alignment. Each trajectory also carries five target-specific instructions. MAP-Data contains over 1.5M
episodes and 7.5K hours of navigation trajectories with explicit MAP and image-plane geometric supervision.
MAP-Bench. MAP-Bench contains 300 targets in 109 scenes. Its training split contains 35,454 trajectories from 6,732
observation poses, with 7,184,098 RGB frames at 15 Hz, and its evaluation split contains 15K trajectories. Each target
has five equivalent English instructions, and one of them is sampled for each episode with a fixed random seed. Each
episode specifies a reference MAP and an initial pose. Episodes are grouped by their initial distance to the reference
MAP into a short range below 1.5 m, a mid range from 1.5 to 3.5 m, and a long range of at least 3.5 m. To prevent
leakage between the splits, we cluster feasible initial poses in 𝑆𝐸(2) with the normalized distance
𝑑(x𝑖, x𝑗) =
√︄ ∥p𝑖−p 𝑗∥2
𝑟𝑝
2
+
wrap(𝜃𝑖−𝜃𝑗)
𝑟𝜃
2
,
(4)
where 𝑟𝑝and 𝑟𝜃set the spatial and angular clustering scales. Each cluster is assigned entirely to one split. The two
splits therefore share targets but never share an initial pose or a near-duplicate initial view, so the evaluation measures
generalization to unseen starting configurations rather than memorized trajectories. All MAP-Bench targets are further
excluded from the rest of MAP-Data, so the additional data used by UniWAM-Scaled contain no benchmark target,
although MAP-Data may contain other targets in the benchmark scenes. Sec. 4.3 evaluates unseen scenes and targets
zero-shot on real robots, which complements the held-out initial poses of MAP-Bench.
Metrics and evaluation. We evaluate MAP navigation with the MAP Position Error and the MAP Heading Error. For
𝑁evaluation trajectories, they are
𝐸pos = 1
𝑁
𝑁
∑︁
𝑟=1
bp𝑟−pMAP
𝑟

2 ,
𝐸head = 1
𝑁
𝑁
∑︁
𝑟=1
wrap

b𝜃𝑟−𝜃MAP
𝑟
 ,
(5)
where bp𝑟and b𝜃𝑟are the reached position and heading, and pMAP
𝑟
and 𝜃MAP
𝑟
are those of the reference MAP. Eq. 5 is
applied per distance range, and Overall averages the three ranges. All models are evaluated in closed loop from the same
held-out initial poses with the same instructions. A predicted action chunk is regarded as near zero if at least 80% of its
predicted relative poses, including the last one, satisfy ∥(𝑥𝑡, 𝑦𝑡)∥2 ≤0.05 m and |𝜃𝑡| ≤0.05 rad. For models that predict
velocities, the test is applied to the base displacement integrated over the chunk. An episode stops after three consecutive
near-zero chunks, and the third chunk is not executed. Uni-NaVid stops when it predicts its stop token. An episode also
ends after twice the steps of its reference trajectory, which bounds the evaluation time of models that never stop.
3.2
UniWAM: Unified Mixed-Stream World-Action Model
UniWAM separates navigation and manipulation at the level of control streams rather than within the action module, as
shown in Fig. 3. Each stream has its own visual inputs, action encoder, output head, and learnable tokens. Both streams
share a video DiT, initialized from Wan2.2-TI2V-5B [27], and an action DiT, coupled through mixture-of-transformers
attention [18]. This design addresses the two problems identified in Sec. 1. Stream-specific interfaces accommodate the
heterogeneous observations and action spaces, and independent sampling lets each training sample supervise only one
stream. The shared DiTs keep a single model and a shared representation for both streams.
6


: Unified Navigation and Manipulation with Mixed-Stream Modeling
Training
𝒇!
"
Prefix clamped
Prefix clamped
Video latent stream
…
Learned tokens
Outputs
Shared
backbones
Token
streams
Encoders
Inputs
Batch
packing
Batch Packing for Parallel execution
Stack along
batch dimension
Manipulation
rows 𝑩#$%&'
Navigation
rows 𝑩%$(
…
…
𝑩'$)*+,
Packed batch
𝑩!"#$%& = 𝑩'()*+ + 𝑩)(, 
1 
2 
3 
Batch concatenation
Rows are stacked along 
the batch dimension 
Attention isolation
Batch rows with no cross-
row attention 
VAE Encoder
Navigation Action Encoder
Manipulation Action Encoder
𝒇-
.
𝑩#$%&'
𝑩%$(
Manipulation
multi-view
Navigation
multi-view
𝒇/
. 𝒇0
.
𝒇1
.
𝒇2
.
𝒇3
.
Navigation action stream
Learned tokens
…
𝒂/
)(,
𝒂-)(,
Manipulation action stream
Learned tokens
…
𝒂/
'()*+
Mixed-Stream
MoT
Batch pack
Future video frames
𝒇-
.
𝒇4
.
𝒂5
)(,
𝒂5
'()*+
𝒇!
.
𝒇/
.
𝒇0
"
𝒇1
"
𝒇!
"
𝒇-
.
𝒇/
.
𝒇0
" 𝒇1
"
Inference
𝒇!
"
𝒇-
.
𝒇0
"
𝒇1
"
𝒇!
"
𝒇-
.
𝒇0
"
𝒇1
"
𝒇!
.
Unified TCP Pose in 
Camera Frame
Action DiT
ℒ!"#
Future navigation action
Navigation head
Manipulation head
Future manipulation action
ℒ$23
%$(
ℒ$23
#$%&'
VAE Decoder
ℒ$)4
%$(
Video DiT
ℒ$)4
#$%&'
Figure 3 Overview of UniWAM. Navigation and manipulation samples are drawn independently, encoded by stream-specific action
encoders, and packed as separate batch rows through the shared video and action DiTs. Stream-specific heads predict actions and
image-plane auxiliary targets, while the video branch predicts future frames. Right: attention masks with clean action prefixes for
training and inference, and the camera-frame end-effector pose shared across embodiments.
3.2.1
Stream Interfaces and Action Representations
Let 𝑠∈{nav, manip}. At time 𝑡, stream 𝑠receives camera views 𝑜𝑠
𝑡, the instruction ℓ, and the proprioceptive state 𝑞𝑡,
and predicts an action chunk
𝐴𝑠
𝑡= (𝑎𝑠
𝑡,1, . . . , 𝑎𝑠
𝑡,𝐻) = 𝑓𝑠
𝜙
 𝑜𝑠
𝑡, ℓ, 𝑞𝑡
,
(6)
where 𝐻is the action horizon, a hyperparameter, and 𝑓𝑠
𝜙shares all DiT parameters 𝜙across streams. A stream-specific
linear encoder maps each action to the shared hidden space, and a stream-specific head decodes it. Because the DiTs are
shared, learnable tokens for the video and actions of each stream mark the view and action space of each sequence.
Navigation actions. Many unified policies represent base motion by linear and angular velocities (𝑣, 𝜔), for example
Mobile ALOHA [13]. UniWAM instead predicts planar pose increments (Δ𝑥, Δ𝑦, Δ𝜃) relative to the base pose at the
start of the action chunk, and a chunk is a sequence of such waypoints over the horizon. This choice addresses a property
of base velocity labels. Mobile bases run under conservative velocity limits with brief acceleration phases, so recorded
linear and angular velocities lie mostly either near zero or at the velocity limits. As a result, the velocity labels follow a
strongly bimodal distribution, much like the binary open and close states of a gripper. Neural networks learn continuous,
smoothly varying targets more easily than such bimodal ones, which are known to be hard to fit with a continuous action
model [10]. Converting base motion into pose increments turns the bimodal velocity labels into continuous values,
because the increments accumulate the velocities over the chunk and vary smoothly along an approach trajectory. Pose
increments also remain easy to execute, because a low-level controller converts them into target velocities for the base.
The ablation in Sec. 4.5 confirms this design, especially for long approaches.
Manipulation actions. Each arm is represented by 10 dimensions, namely a 3D end-effector position, a 6D rotation,
and a 1D gripper state, so the dual-arm action has (3 + 6 + 1) × 2 = 20 dimensions. The 6D rotation consists of the first
two columns of the rotation matrix, and the full matrix is recovered by Gram–Schmidt orthogonalization [46]. Unlike
Euler angles and quaternions, this representation is continuous, so nearby rotations have nearby targets. Positions and
7


rotations are expressed in the current main camera frame, which makes visually similar motions numerically similar
across embodiments [40]. For single-arm robots, the absent arm is zero-padded and masked from the loss.
3.2.2
Mixed-Stream Batch Packing and Attention
Encoded examples of both streams are stacked along the batch dimension,
𝑋pack = Concat𝐵
 𝑋manip, 𝑋nav ∈R(𝐵manip+𝐵nav)×𝐿×𝐷,
(7)
where 𝐵manip and 𝐵nav need not be equal. Visual tokens and conditioning are packed in the same order, and attention
never crosses batch rows. A navigation row therefore conditions only on navigation views and actions, and a manipulation
row only on manipulation ones, while both update the same DiT parameters. The two streams therefore interact only
through the weights they share.
Within a row, the video DiT reads visual tokens, while language and robot state enter through cross-attention. Current-
observation tokens cannot read future frames, future-frame tokens may read the full visual sequence, and action tokens
cannot read future video tokens. Let V𝑡denote the current visual tokens and T 𝑠the learnable tokens of stream 𝑠. The
action token 𝑎𝑠
𝑡, 𝑗attends to
N  𝑎𝑠
𝑡, 𝑗
 = V𝑡∪T 𝑠∪{𝑎𝑠
𝑡,𝑘: 𝑘≤𝑗},
(8)
so each action reads the current visual context, the learnable tokens, itself, and earlier actions, but not later actions.
Learnable tokens read the current visual context and one another, but not action tokens. Under prefix-conditioned
asynchronous inference, the first 𝑃actions of a chunk are the clean actions already committed for execution. The causal
mask of Eq. 8 lets the later actions condition on this clean prefix without leaking information from later noisy actions
backward, so each new chunk continues the executed motion consistently. At deployment, both streams run continuously
in one batch without switching model parameters or invoking a separate policy.
3.2.3
Independent Stream Sampling
In a complete mobile-manipulation trajectory, the arm is mostly idle during navigation and the base is mostly idle during
manipulation. We therefore split each mobile-manipulation trajectory by rule into navigation windows and manipulation
windows, one set for each stream. Within each stream, a second rule marks every window as active or idle, depending
on whether the controlled part of the robot moves. Each window then becomes a separate example of its stream. A
mobile-manipulation trajectory thus contributes to both streams, whereas navigation-only data such as MAP-Data and
manipulation-only data contribute only to their own stream. Examples are drawn from
𝑞(𝑑, 𝑖) =
𝛼𝑑
Í
𝑑′ 𝛼𝑑′
𝑤𝑑,𝑖
Í
𝑗𝑤𝑑, 𝑗
,
(9)
where 𝛼𝑑is the weight of source 𝑑and 𝑤𝑑,𝑖the weight of its 𝑖-th window. Normalizing within each source decouples its
sampling mass from its size, and the window weights set the proportions of navigation and manipulation windows and of
active and idle windows. In this way, idle windows are retained at a controlled proportion instead of dominating training.
Duplicate or temporally adjacent windows are rejected within a batch, and windows from the same episode must have
start frames separated by at least 𝛿frames. The selected examples are grouped by stream and packed with Eq. 7. The
stream-specific batch sizes may differ, and navigation and manipulation rows need not originate from the same trajectory.
3.2.4
Image-Plane Auxiliary Supervision
Both streams predict spatial actions from images. To ground these actions in the image, we append image-plane targets
to each action vector,
𝑎𝑠
𝑡,𝑖=

𝑎𝑠,act
𝑡,𝑖; 𝑎𝑠,aux
𝑡,𝑖

,
(10)
and denoise them jointly with the actions, as shown in the output row of Fig. 3. For navigation, the targets are the target
bounding box and the projected MAP position of Eq. 3, which indicate where the target is and where the base should
stop at every step of the approach. For manipulation, the targets are the two end-effector trajectories projected into the
main camera view, together with visibility flags. Predicting these tracks jointly with the camera-frame end-effector poses
explicitly links the camera-frame actions to their image-plane locations in the main view. The projected MAP and
8


Algorithm 1 Calibrated main-view end-effector geometry
Require: states 𝑆0:𝑇−1; main-view video 𝑉; intrinsics 𝐾; reference-to-camera transform 𝐸𝑐←ref; per-arm base-to-
reference transforms {𝑀𝑖
ref←𝑏𝑖}𝑖∈A; operation mask 𝑚op; point offsets oJ6 = 0 and ovis; arms A = {left, right}
Ensure: flange and gripper image points 𝑃J6
0:𝑇−1 and 𝑃vis
0:𝑇−1; geometric validity mask 𝑚geo
0:𝑇−1; provenance record R
Notation: ℎ(y) = [y⊤, 1]⊤; xyz(·) drops the homogeneous coordinate; 𝜋𝐾([𝑋,𝑌, 𝑍]⊤) = [ 𝑓𝑥𝑋/𝑍+ 𝑐𝑥, 𝑓𝑦𝑌/𝑍+
𝑐𝑦]⊤
1: R ←ValidateCalibration(𝐾, 𝐸𝑐←ref, {𝑀𝑖
ref←𝑏𝑖})
2: for 𝑡= 0, . . . ,𝑇−1 and 𝑖∈A do
3:
(x𝑖
𝑡, 𝑅𝑖
𝑡) ←DecodeState(𝑆𝑡, 𝑖)
⊲pose in the arm base frame
4:
for 𝜌∈{J6, vis} do
5:
c𝑖,𝜌
𝑡
←xyz  𝐸𝑐←ref 𝑀𝑖
ref←𝑏𝑖ℎ(x𝑖
𝑡+ 𝑅𝑖
𝑡o𝜌)
⊲point in the camera frame
6:
𝑃𝑖,𝜌
𝑡
←𝜋𝐾(c𝑖,𝜌
𝑡)
7:
end for
8:
𝑚geo,𝑖
𝑡
←1[(c𝑖,vis
𝑡
)𝑧> 0] · 1[𝑃𝑖,vis
𝑡
∈[0, 𝑊img) × [0, 𝐻img)] · 𝑚op
𝑡
9: end for
10: R ←R ∪HashInputs(𝑆,𝑉, 𝐾, 𝐸𝑐←ref, {𝑀𝑖
ref←𝑏𝑖})
11: return 𝑃J6, 𝑃vis, 𝑚geo, R
end-effector positions are image-plane counterparts of the navigation goal and the manipulation action, which keeps the
auxiliary targets geometrically consistent with the actions they accompany.
The end-effector tracks are generated from recorded robot states and camera calibration in three steps. Algorithm 1
projects each end effector into the main view, Algorithm 2 decides in which frames the projected point is visible, and
Algorithm 3 runs both steps on every episode and validates the output.
Calibrated geometry. For each arm, Algorithm 1 decodes the end-effector pose in the native base frame of that arm,
maps it into a common reference frame with the per-arm transform 𝑀𝑖
ref←𝑏𝑖, and then into the main camera frame with
𝐸𝑐←ref. Two points are tracked per arm, namely the flange of the sixth joint with zero offset and a point on the gripper
with offset ovis, which is the part seen in the image. Both points are projected with the pinhole model 𝜋𝐾. A projected
gripper point is geometrically valid if it lies in front of the camera, falls inside the image, and belongs to the manipulation
interval given by the operation mask 𝑚op. The calibration is checked before projection, and a record of its inputs is
stored with the labels, so every label can be traced to its calibration.
Appearance-gated visibility. A geometrically valid point may still be hidden, for example by the other arm or by an
object. Algorithm 2 thus checks the image content at the projected point. It encodes every 𝑘-th frame with DINOv2 [21],
takes the patch token at the projected gripper point, and scores it by its highest cosine similarity to positive end-effector
prototypes minus its highest similarity to negative background prototypes. The scores are interpolated only within
contiguous valid segments, thresholded with hysteresis so that the visibility does not flicker near the threshold, and
cleaned by filling short gaps and removing short runs. The output keeps the coordinates only in visible frames and labels
each frame as visible, valid but occluded, or invalid for the auxiliary loss.
Label generation. Algorithm 3 runs the two steps on every episode in parallel. It resolves the calibration of each episode
from a registry, writes the labels together with a per-episode report, and validates all outputs against the dataset before
training. Coordinates are normalized to the annotation canvas, and only visible points enter the auxiliary loss.
3.2.5
Training Objective
All targets are trained with flow matching [19]. For a clean video-latent sequence or normalized action chunk x, noise
𝝐∼N (0, I), and noise level 𝜎∈[0, 1], the noisy input and the velocity target are
x𝜎= (1 −𝜎)x + 𝜎𝝐,
v∗= 𝝐−x.
(11)
Video and action noise levels are sampled independently for each example as 𝜎= 𝜅𝑢/[1 + (𝜅−1)𝑢] with 𝑢∼U(0, 1)
and 𝜅= 5. The current observation remains clean, and only future video latents are supervised. The action and
auxiliary dimensions of one action vector share a noise level. For prefix-conditioned training, positions 1 ≤𝑡≤𝑃are
9


Algorithm 2 Appearance-gated visibility of the end-effector track
Require: main-view video 𝑉; gripper points 𝑃vis; geometric validity mask 𝑚geo; DINOv2 encoder Φ; positive and
negative prototypes Q+, Q−; stride 𝑘; thresholds 𝜂in > 𝜂out; minimum gap and run lengths 𝑛gap, 𝑛run; arms A
Ensure: visibility mask 𝑧0:𝑇−1; visible-only coordinates e𝑃0:𝑇−1; quality labels 𝑞0:𝑇−1
1: 𝑈+ ←EncodePrototypes(Φ, Q+), 𝑈−←EncodePrototypes(Φ, Q−)
2: for 𝑡∈{0, 𝑘, 2𝑘, . . .} with 𝑡< 𝑇do
3:
𝐹𝑡←Φ(𝑉𝑡)
4:
for 𝑖∈A do
5:
if 𝑚geo,𝑖
𝑡
= 1 then
6:
f ←PatchToken(𝐹𝑡, 𝑃𝑖,vis
𝑡
)
⊲token at the projected point
7:
𝜇𝑖
𝑡←maxu∈𝑈+ cos(f, u) −maxu∈𝑈−cos(f, u)
8:
else
9:
𝜇𝑖
𝑡←NaN
10:
end if
11:
end for
12: end for
13: ¯𝜇←InterpolateWithinSegments(𝜇, 𝑚geo)
14: 𝑧←Hysteresis( ¯𝜇, 𝜂in, 𝜂out) · 𝑚geo
15: 𝑧←Morphology(𝑧, 𝑚geo, 𝑛gap, 𝑛run)
⊲fill short gaps, remove short runs
16: for 𝑡= 0, . . . ,𝑇−1 and 𝑖∈A do
17:
e𝑃𝑖
𝑡←𝑃𝑖,vis
𝑡
if 𝑧𝑖
𝑡= 1, else NaN
18:
𝑞𝑖
𝑡←1 if 𝑧𝑖
𝑡= 1; 2 if 𝑚geo,𝑖
𝑡
= 1 and 𝑧𝑖
𝑡= 0; 0 otherwise
⊲visible, occluded, invalid
19: end for
20: return 𝑧, e𝑃, 𝑞
Algorithm 3 End-effector label generation for a dataset
Require: episodes
D;
calibration
registry
C;
point
offsets
oJ6, ovis;
visibility
parameters
Θvis
=
(Φ, Q+, Q−, 𝑘, 𝜂in, 𝜂out, 𝑛gap, 𝑛run)
Ensure: per-episode labels and reports; validated manifest M
1: for all episodes 𝑒∈D in parallel do
2:
(𝑆𝑒,𝑉𝑒) ←ReadEpisode(𝑒)
3:
(𝐾𝑒, 𝐸𝑒, {𝑀𝑖,𝑒}, 𝑚op,𝑒) ←ResolveCalibration(𝑒, C)
4:
(𝑃J6,𝑒, 𝑃vis,𝑒, 𝑚geo,𝑒, R𝑒) ←Algorithm 1
5:
(𝑧𝑒, e𝑃𝑒, 𝑞𝑒) ←Algorithm 2 with Θvis
6:
WriteLabels(𝑒, 𝑃J6,𝑒, 𝑃vis,𝑒, e𝑃𝑒, 𝑚geo,𝑒, 𝑧𝑒, 𝑞𝑒, R𝑒)
⊲labels and report
7: end for
8: M ←ValidateAll(D)
⊲every episode has complete labels
9: return M
replaced by clean committed actions and excluded from supervision. With probability 𝑝pre, 𝑃is drawn uniformly from
{𝑃min, . . . , 𝑃max}, and otherwise 𝑃= 0, which matches the prefix lengths used at deployment.
For each supervised group 𝑔, let F 𝑔
𝑏,𝑡contain the valid features at position 𝑡of example 𝑏, and let I𝑔
𝑏contain the
non-prefix, non-padded positions with at least one valid feature. The per-example loss is
ℓ𝑔
𝑏= 𝜔(𝜎𝑏)
|I𝑔
𝑏|
∑︁
𝑡∈I𝑔
𝑏
1
|F 𝑔
𝑏,𝑡|
∑︁
𝑗∈F𝑔
𝑏,𝑡

b𝑣𝑏,𝑡, 𝑗−𝑣∗
𝑏,𝑡, 𝑗
2
,
(12)
where 𝜔(𝜎𝑏) is a loss weight that depends on the noise level. Each group loss L𝑔is the mean of ℓ𝑔
𝑏over the examples
with valid supervision, using counts aggregated across workers. The full objective is
L = 𝜆vidLvid +
∑︁
𝑠∈{nav,manip}
 𝜆𝑠
actL𝑠
act + 𝜆𝑠
auxL𝑠
aux
,
(13)
10


where Lvid supervises future video latents of both streams, L𝑠
act the actions, and L𝑠
aux the image-plane targets. Because
each term is averaged only over valid positions and features, a sample contributes only to the losses of its own stream.
3.2.6
Implementation and Inference
Network and optimization. UniWAM uses the Wan2.2-TI2V-5B [27] video backbone, video VAE, and text conditioning.
The action DiT has 30 transformer layers and a hidden dimension of 𝐷𝑎= 1024, compared with 𝐷𝑣= 3072 for the
video DiT. Sampling every fourth image from a 33-frame observation window yields nine RGB frames, which are
encoded into three temporal VAE latents. Camera views are arranged into a 384 × 320 canvas with a main view and
wrist panels. We optimize with AdamW, an initial learning rate of 10−5, and cosine decay. The video VAE and the
text encoder stay frozen, and all other parameters are trained. Inference uses a deterministic schedule with ten Euler
denoising steps and no classifier-free guidance for either stream.
Infrastructure acceleration. In standard PyTorch execution, each transformer operation is dispatched separately from
Python. Because the mixed video-action layers operate on relatively short action sequences, the CPU may spend
substantial time submitting kernels while the GPU waits for the next launch. This overhead affects every training step
and becomes more pronounced during inference, where the action denoising computation is repeated over multiple Euler
steps. UniWAM reduces this overhead through separate training and inference paths. During training, torch.compile
captures the tensor-only mixed-stream transformer layer as a full graph and reuses the compiled function across layers
and optimization steps, while data preparation, loss computation, and parameter updates remain outside the compiled
region. During inference, we compile the VAE encoder, the visual-cache prefill, and the cached action-denoising function
separately. The current observation is encoded once, and its layerwise video keys and values are reused across the ten
Euler steps, so the video branch is not recomputed at every step. For fixed input shapes, reduce-overhead compilation and
execution compatible with CUDA graphs further reduce the cost of CPU submission and kernel launches. When both
streams are active, navigation and manipulation rows are packed into the same batch and processed by the same compiled
functions, which increases the work in each launch and avoids separate model invocations. In our measurements, this
implementation reduces two-stream inference latency on one NVIDIA H200 from about 220 ms to below 60 ms, and the
corresponding training setup exceeds 600 samples per second on 16 NVIDIA H200 GPUs. Asynchronous execution
further overlaps the remaining inference time with the execution of committed actions.
4
Experiments
We evaluate UniWAM on MAP-Bench and on 24 real-robot tasks. The experiments answer four questions. First, does
UniWAM dock more accurately than existing policies, and how much does MAP-Data help? Second, does this advantage
carry over to real robots and to complete mobile-manipulation tasks? Third, which part of the gain comes from the
mixed-stream architecture and which from independent sampling? Fourth, how does each design component contribute?
4.1
Experimental Setup
Tasks and platforms. MAP-Bench evaluates MAP navigation from held-out initial poses in the three distance ranges of
Sec. 3.1. The real-robot evaluation covers 13 MAP Navigation, 4 Mobile Manipulation, and 7 Manipulation tasks on
four embodiments, namely AgileX Cobot Magic, AgiBot G2, dual-arm Franka Research 3, and an AgileX single-arm
platform. The 13 MAP Navigation tasks run on both the Cobot Magic and the AgiBot G2. The four Mobile Manipulation
tasks and Manipulation task 5 run on the Cobot Magic, Manipulation tasks 1 to 3 and 7 on the dual Franka, and
Manipulation tasks 4 and 6 on the AgileX single arm, so every embodiment contributes to the evaluation.
Fig. 4 shows the mobile platform, whose two head cameras realize the stream-specific observations of UniWAM. The
wide-view camera captures distant targets and free space for navigation, and the downward-facing camera captures the
workspace for manipulation. The navigation stream observes the wide-view head camera, and the manipulation stream
observes the downward-facing head camera and the two wrist cameras. In Mobile Manipulation, the navigation stream
also observes the wrist cameras to track the arms during the approach.
UniWAM variants. Both variants start from Wan2.2-TI2V-5B [27] without embodied pretraining. UniWAM-Base
uses only the data available to the baselines and is the matched comparison. It is trained on the 35K-trajectory training
split on MAP-Bench and on the demonstrations of the 24 evaluation tasks on real robots. UniWAM-Scaled keeps the
architecture and adds data through independent stream sampling, drawing large-scale and task data at a 7:3 ratio. On
11


Steep overhead view 
with a narrow field of 
view for manipulation
Shallow overhead 
view with a wide field 
of view for navigation
Figure 4 Mobile manipulation platform. A shallow-angle head camera with a wide field of view provides the navigation-stream input,
and a steep-angle head camera with a narrow field of view, together with the wrist cameras, provides the manipulation-stream input.
In Mobile Manipulation, the navigation stream also receives the wrist cameras. The two inputs form the navigation and manipulation
rows of a mixed-stream batch, which UniWAM processes in one forward pass.
MAP-Bench, it adds MAP-Data under the same training budget, so its gain isolates the value of MAP-Data. On real
robots, it adds MAP-Data to the navigation stream, sampling 15 trajectories per navigation target, and adds 402 private
manipulation tasks with 30 demonstrations each to the manipulation stream. These tasks are disjoint from the evaluation
tasks. In both variants, windows of mobile-manipulation trajectories in which the arm is idle during base motion are
sampled at 20% of their original probability, and windows in which the base is idle during manipulation at 15%. Each
variant is a single model for all tasks and embodiments, without task-specific fine-tuning.
MAP-Bench baselines. We compare with the VLA models 𝜋0.5 [3] and GR00T N1.7 [2], the VLN models Uni-
NaVid [42] and InternVLA-N1 [15], and the world-action model FastWAM [41]. All models, including UniWAM, are
trained on the MAP-Bench training split for 40,000 steps on 16 NVIDIA H200 GPUs. All models observe only the
forward RGB camera, and each keeps its native action interface, into which the navigation labels are converted. Only
UniWAM receives the bounding-box and MAP auxiliary targets. 𝜋0.5 and GR00T N1.7 are fine-tuned with all parameters
from their public checkpoints. InternVLA-N1 starts from the released DualVLN checkpoint [29] and, as in its official
recipe, keeps System 2 frozen and trains only the System 1 trajectory generator, using the current frame and up to four
history frames. Uni-NaVid is fine-tuned with all parameters from the Uni-NaVid-7B checkpoint, using the current
observation and up to three earlier observations sampled every 0.5 s. Because its native outputs are discrete forward and
turning primitives, its labels are the primitive sequences that best fit the future trajectory, found by dynamic programming.
FastWAM is the baseline closest to UniWAM in formulation. It starts from Wan2.2-TI2V-5B and shares the data, visual
inputs, action targets, horizon, optimizer, and schedule of UniWAM-Base, but follows its own official architecture and
does not use the stream-specific interfaces, the causal action mask, or the image-plane auxiliary supervision. Apart from
the shared data and budget, each baseline follows its official fine-tuning recipe.
Real-robot baselines. We compare with 𝜋0.5 and GR00T N1.7, which start from their public checkpoints, keep their
native action interfaces, and update all parameters. All methods are trained on the same demonstrations of the 24
evaluation tasks with the same instructions. Each MAP Navigation task has 50 demonstrations on each of its two
embodiments, and each Mobile Manipulation or Manipulation task has about 200, with 400 for selected challenging
tasks such as six-cup stacking. All methods observe the same cameras. In MAP Navigation, every method observes
only the wide-view navigation head camera. In Mobile Manipulation, all methods observe the navigation head camera,
the manipulation head camera, and the two wrist cameras. UniWAM assigns them to its streams, whereas 𝜋0.5 and
GR00T N1.7 receive all four views as a single multi-view observation. For this four-camera setting, GR00T N1.7 uses a
bimanual embodiment configuration similar to that of ALOHA, with one video key per camera. For MAP Navigation,
12


Table 3 Real-robot training settings. Steps and GPUs are given per model. Each baseline trains one MAP Navigation model per
mobile robot and one model for the remaining tasks of each embodiment, whereas each UniWAM variant is one model for all tasks.
𝜋0.5
GR00T N1.7
UniWAM-Base
UniWAM-Scaled
Initialization
𝜋0.5 base checkpoint
GR00T N1.7-3B checkpoint
Wan2.2-TI2V-5B
Wan2.2-TI2V-5B
Robot pretraining
yes
yes
none
none
Frozen modules
none
none
VAE, text encoder
VAE, text encoder
Task demonstrations
24 tasks
24 tasks
24 tasks
24 tasks
Additional data
none
none
none
MAP-Data and 402 tasks
Image-plane auxiliary outputs
✗
✗
✓
✓
Steps per model
50K
50K
20K
30K
GPUs per model
8
8
32
64
each baseline is trained as one model on all 13 tasks for each of the Cobot Magic and the AgiBot G2, because these
tasks share the action space and differ mainly in the target. For the other tasks, each baseline is fine-tuned separately for
each embodiment. We also co-trained each baseline on all 24 tasks, as for UniWAM, but this performed worse than
per-embodiment training for both 𝜋0.5 and GR00T N1.7, which we attribute to their large-scale robot pretraining. We
therefore report their per-embodiment models, each evaluated at the checkpoint that performed best in our real-robot
tests. Table 3 summarizes the training settings of all real-robot models, including initialization, data, and compute.
Sharing the data, cameras, and evaluation protocol across all methods keeps the comparison fair.
Real-robot evaluation protocol. The reference MAP of each task is the parking pose marked during data collection. In
each MAP Navigation trial, the robot starts at this pose and is moved to a random initial pose 1 to 5 m away with a
heading offset within ±45◦. The onboard state estimator records both motions, so the reached pose is scored against the
same reference. The robot runs until it stops under the rule of Sec. 3.1. Each Mobile Manipulation trial consists of
navigation followed by manipulation. When the base stops, 𝐸pos and 𝐸head are computed against the reference MAP,
and the robot then executes the manipulation stage. At test time, UniWAM activates both streams and packs them
into one batch throughout each trial. The policies still predict small but nonzero base motions during manipulation,
which can disturb precise placements. Therefore, for all methods, a predicted base chunk is not executed when its
displacement stays below 0.05 m and 0.05 rad, analogous to the stopping rule of MAP-Bench. Each Manipulation trial
starts from a fixed working pose, and a task-specific predicate decides success. Each task is evaluated over 40 trials
on each embodiment it runs on, and MAP Navigation results are averaged over the Cobot Magic and the AgiBot G2.
The initial configurations of these trials, including the robot pose and the object placements, are recorded once and
reproduced for every method. All methods share task definitions, instructions, success criteria, and termination rules.
Metrics. MAP Navigation is measured by 𝐸pos and 𝐸head of Eq. 5. On real robots, the reached pose is obtained from the
onboard state estimator. Mobile Manipulation reports the same errors when the base stops, together with the success rate
(SR) of the subsequent manipulation. Manipulation reports SR. Real-robot results are unweighted task means.
4.2
MAP-Bench Results
Table 4 summarizes MAP-Bench performance across models and initial distances.
Overall comparison. UniWAM-Scaled achieves the lowest errors in every distance range, reaching 9.85 cm and 2.30◦
overall. These errors are 30.1% and 44.0% lower than those of the strongest external baselines, GR00T N1.7 at 14.1 cm
and 𝜋0.5 at 4.11◦, respectively. Without MAP-Data, UniWAM-Base already reduces these errors by 11.3% and 21.2%,
which shows that the architecture alone improves docking under identical data.
Semantic versus manipulation-ready navigation. Although trained on the same split, the VLN models retain large
terminal errors, with Overall position errors of 48.2 and 62.3 cm and long-range errors of 87.2 and 130.0 cm. Both
are designed for semantic navigation, and their official recipes keep the planning module of InternVLA-N1 frozen and
restrict Uni-NaVid to discrete motion primitives. The VLA and WAM baselines are more accurate but degrade with
distance. For example, the position error of 𝜋0.5 increases from 7.98 cm at short range to 50.8 cm at long range.
Long-range docking. Relative to the best baseline in each range, UniWAM-Scaled reduces position error by 6.3% at
short range and 35.5% at long range. Its position error grows by a factor of 1.9 from short to long range, compared with
13


Table 4 MAP-Bench results over the evaluation split. Bold and underline mark the best and second-best results.
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
Overall
𝐸head (◦) ↓
Overall
Model
Short
Mid
Long
Short
Mid
Long
Vision-language-action models (VLA)
GR00T N1.7 [2]
9.48
10.8
22.0
14.1
5.66
5.42
7.46
6.18
𝜋0.5 [3]
7.98
9.85
50.8
22.9
3.26
3.51
5.55
4.11
Vision-language navigation models (VLN)
Uni-NaVid [42]
17.3
40.0
87.2
48.2
7.98
15.0
23.4
15.5
InternVLA-N1 [15]
17.3
39.7
130.0
62.3
3.72
11.0
27.6
14.1
World-action models (WAM)
FastWAM [41]
9.24
11.0
31.1
17.1
3.44
3.95
6.66
4.68
UniWAM-Base
7.71
8.85
21.0
12.5
2.37
3.06
4.29
3.24
UniWAM-Scaled
7.48
7.86
14.2
9.85
1.82
2.08
3.01
2.30
Table 5 MAP-Bench errors when training with a fraction of the MAP-Data targets under a fixed compute budget. The second column
is the fraction of MAP-Data targets from which the MAP-Data samples are drawn. Whenever MAP-Data is used, it is mixed with the
MAP-Bench training split at a fixed 7:3 ratio, so all runs with MAP-Data see the same number of MAP-Data samples. 0% denotes
training on the MAP-Bench split alone. UniWAM at 0% and 100% are UniWAM-Base and UniWAM-Scaled, and 𝜋0.5 uses the same
data and budget. Position errors are in centimeters and heading errors in degrees.
Model
MAP-Data targets
𝐸pos Short
𝐸pos Mid
𝐸pos Long
𝐸pos Overall
𝐸head Overall
UniWAM-Base
0%
7.71
8.85
21.0
12.5
3.24
UniWAM
25%
7.63
8.52
18.1
11.4
2.81
UniWAM
50%
7.52
8.03
15.3
10.3
2.43
UniWAM-Scaled
100%
7.48
7.86
14.2
9.85
2.30
𝜋0.5
0%
7.98
9.85
50.8
22.9
4.11
𝜋0.5
100%
7.42
9.45
47.8
21.6
4.07
2.3 for GR00T N1.7, 3.4 for FastWAM, and 6.4 for 𝜋0.5. Its heading error is also 40.7% to 45.8% lower than that of the
best baseline in each of the three distance ranges.
Effect of MAP-Data. UniWAM-Base and UniWAM-Scaled share the architecture and training budget, and only
UniWAM-Scaled mixes MAP-Data. MAP-Data reduces the Overall position and heading errors by 21.2% and 29.0%,
and the position gain increases from 3.0% at short range to 32.4% at long range. Long approaches thus benefit most
from explicit supervision of where to stop, since small heading errors grow over distance.
Scaling with MAP-Data. This experiment asks whether navigation keeps improving as more MAP-Data becomes
available. We train UniWAM on MAP-Bench with a random subset of 25%, 50%, or 100% of the MAP-Data targets,
sampling 15 trajectories per target and excluding every benchmark target. All other settings follow UniWAM-Scaled,
including the architecture, the 7:3 mixture of MAP-Data and the MAP-Bench training split, and 40,000 steps on 16
GPUs. Because the mixture ratio and the number of steps are fixed, the 25%, 50%, and 100% runs see the same number
of MAP-Data samples and differ only in how many distinct targets and scenes these samples come from. Table 5 shows
that both errors decrease monotonically as more of MAP-Data is used. The gain concentrates at long range, where the
position error falls from 21.0 to 14.2 cm, whereas the short-range error changes by only 0.23 cm. The gain diminishes
with more data but remains positive, and the last doubling still reduces the Overall position error by 4.4%.
To test whether other models benefit equally, we also train 𝜋0.5 with the full MAP-Data under the same mixture and
budget. Its Overall errors fall by only 5.7% and 1.0%, compared with 21.2% and 29.0% for UniWAM, and its long-range
position error remains at 47.8 cm, compared with 14.2 cm for UniWAM-Scaled. 𝜋0.5 gains mainly at short range, where
it reaches 7.42 cm, on par with UniWAM-Scaled. Large-scale MAP supervision thus helps most when navigation is
learned as its own stream with image-plane targets, as in UniWAM.
14


Table 6 Real-robot results averaged over the tasks in each category. Bold and underline mark the best and second-best results.
MAP Navigation
Mobile Manipulation
Manipulation
Model
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
𝐸head (◦) ↓
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
𝐸head (◦) ↓
SR (%) ↑
SR (%) ↑
𝜋0.5 [3]
23.3
5.15
26.2
5.72
62.5
71.4
GR00T N1.7 [2]
18.1
6.55
20.4
7.20
39.4
36.8
UniWAM-Base
15.1
4.91
17.1
5.30
63.1
44.3
UniWAM-Scaled
11.7
4.25
13.2
4.56
80.0
68.9
4.3
Real-Robot Results
Table 6 summarizes the 24 real-robot tasks, and Fig. 6 in Sec. 4.6 shows representative executions. Among the evaluated
models, UniWAM-Scaled achieves the lowest position and heading errors in MAP Navigation and Mobile Manipulation,
the highest Mobile Manipulation success rate, and the second-highest Manipulation success rate.
MAP navigation. The two baselines trade off position and heading accuracy. GR00T N1.7 has the lower position error,
18.1 cm compared with 23.3 cm for 𝜋0.5, whereas 𝜋0.5 has the lower heading error, 5.15◦compared with 6.55◦. Trained
only on task data, UniWAM-Base outperforms both on both metrics, reaching 15.1 cm and 4.91◦. UniWAM-Scaled
further reduces the errors to 11.7 cm and 4.25◦, 35.4% and 17.5% below the strongest baseline, respectively. It achieves
the lowest position error on all 13 tasks and the lowest heading error on 11.
Mobile manipulation. The docking accuracy of UniWAM-Scaled carries over to end-to-end performance. It stops
13.2 cm and 4.56◦from the MAP, 35.3% and 20.3% below the best baseline, respectively. Its success rate reaches 80.0%,
17.5 percentage points above 𝜋0.5 at 62.5%, with non-overlapping 95% intervals, and it is highest on all four tasks.
UniWAM-Base reaches a success rate similar to that of 𝜋0.5, 63.1% versus 62.5%, while docking more accurately.
Manipulation. 𝜋0.5 achieves the highest average success at 71.4%, followed by UniWAM-Scaled at 68.9%. UniWAM-
Scaled leads on the three sorting and placement tasks, while 𝜋0.5 leads by 2.5 to 12.5 percentage points on six-cup
stacking, the two tube-insertion tasks, and long-horizon coffee preparation. 𝜋0.5 is pretrained on large-scale robot data,
whereas UniWAM starts from a video model and relies on mixed-data training, so the remaining gap is largest on these
dexterous or long-horizon tasks. GR00T N1.7 has the lowest success at 36.8%.
Scaling. Relative to UniWAM-Base, UniWAM-Scaled reduces MAP Navigation errors by 22.5% and 13.4% and raises
success by 16.9 and 24.6 percentage points on Mobile Manipulation and Manipulation. These gains reflect both more
data and more compute, and Sec. 4.2 isolates the effect of MAP-Data.
Per-task results. Table 7 reports the per-task results. In MAP Navigation, UniWAM-Scaled has the lowest position error
on all 13 tasks and the lowest heading error on 11. On the sink and the round side table, UniWAM-Base has the lowest
heading error. In Mobile Manipulation, UniWAM-Scaled is best on all four tasks in all three metrics. UniWAM-Base
exceeds 𝜋0.5 in success on cube sorting and pouring and trails it by 2.5 points on the other two. In Manipulation,
UniWAM-Scaled leads on tasks 4 to 6, and 𝜋0.5 leads on tasks 1 to 3 and 7, with the largest gap of 12.5 points on coffee
preparation, where GR00T N1.7 fails every trial and 𝜋0.5 reaches 52.5%.
Zero-shot transfer from MAP-Data to real robots. This experiment tests whether MAP-Data alone teaches real-robot
docking. Each model is trained only on MAP-Data for 70,000 steps on 32 NVIDIA H200 GPUs and is deployed directly
on the Cobot Magic and the AgiBot G2. We refer to UniWAM trained in this way as UniWAM-Sim. The baselines use
the same data and budget and otherwise follow their official recipes. Evaluation uses the 13 real MAP Navigation tasks
and the protocol above, with 40 trials per task on each embodiment, and the errors are averaged over the two embodiments
as for the real-data models. No real-robot data, room, or target instance is used in training, so every real-robot test is
unseen. Table 8 shows that UniWAM-Sim stops 18.7 cm and 6.34◦from the MAP on average. Without any real-robot
data, its position error is lower than that of 𝜋0.5 trained on the real demonstrations, although its heading error remains
higher than the 5.15◦of that model. The baselines transfer less well. The position errors of 𝜋0.5 and GR00T N1.7 are 2.4
and 1.9 times those of their real-data versions in Table 6, and FastWAM, which shares the video backbone of UniWAM,
remains 12.1 cm behind UniWAM-Sim. This shows that navigation learned from MAP-Data transfers to real robots, and
the gap to FastWAM is consistent with the stream-specific design and image-plane supervision.
15


Table 7 Per-task real-robot results with 40 trials per task on each embodiment. MAP Navigation cells report position error and
heading error averaged over the Cobot Magic and the AgiBot G2. Mobile Manipulation cells additionally report the success rate in
percent, and Manipulation cells report only the success rate. Avg. is the unweighted mean over the tasks in each category. Bold and
underline mark the best and second-best values for each metric.
ID Task
𝜋0.5
GR00T N1.7
UniWAM-Base
UniWAM-Scaled
MAP Navigation
𝐸pos (cm) ↓/ 𝐸head (◦) ↓
1 Water dispenser
18.9 / 4.83
19.7 / 5.47
13.9 / 4.23
10.3 / 3.86
2 Humanoid robot
24.7 / 5.17
18.4 / 6.57
15.3 / 4.84
12.6 / 4.47
3 TV cabinet
20.2 / 4.56
14.8 / 5.74
12.1 / 3.76
8.94 / 3.58
4 Tool cabinet
25.3 / 5.63
20.2 / 7.18
16.5 / 7.27
11.7 / 4.06
5 Cushion
21.8 / 4.69
15.6 / 5.93
13.2 / 4.34
9.73 / 3.74
6 Table
28.1 / 5.84
19.7 / 7.46
16.9 / 5.47
13.7 / 4.86
7 Sink
16.9 / 4.27
17.3 / 6.34
12.7 / 3.86
10.8 / 4.13
8 Potted plant
30.9 / 6.36
23.1 / 8.13
19.7 / 6.58
14.8 / 5.24
9 Wall-side cabinet
23.7 / 5.14
18.2 / 6.77
14.8 / 4.79
11.9 / 4.31
10 Workstation
24.9 / 5.46
18.8 / 6.86
15.9 / 5.24
13.1 / 4.72
11 Black side cabinet
26.4 / 5.91
21.1 / 7.57
17.1 / 5.96
12.8 / 4.57
12 Round side table
21.2 / 4.76
15.1 / 5.84
14.5 / 3.94
11.8 / 4.24
13 Countertop
19.5 / 4.35
13.9 / 5.24
13.4 / 3.53
9.41 / 3.46
Avg.
23.3 / 5.15
18.1 / 6.55
15.1 / 4.91
11.7 / 4.25
Mobile Manipulation
𝐸pos (cm) ↓/ 𝐸head (◦) ↓/ SR (%) ↑
1 Place items in storage box
25.6/5.67/65.0
19.2/6.91/42.5
16.7/5.16/62.5
12.8/4.37/82.5
2 Sort colored cubes into trays
23.8/5.29/55.0
21.3/7.46/35.0
18.2/5.73/60.0
13.1/4.46/77.5
3 Clear cups onto tray
29.1/6.18/70.0
18.7/6.58/47.5
15.9/4.87/67.5
13.8/4.83/85.0
4 Pour water into cup
26.3/5.74/60.0
22.4/7.83/32.5
17.6/5.42/62.5
13.1/4.57/75.0
Avg.
26.2/5.72/62.5
20.4/7.20/39.4
17.1/5.30/63.1
13.2/4.56/80.0
Manipulation
SR (%) ↑
1 Stack six-cup pyramid
75.0
35.0
45.0
72.5
2 Insert tubes into metal rack
77.5
35.0
42.5
67.5
3 Insert tubes into plastic rack
65.0
17.5
35.0
60.0
4 Sort medicine boxes and parts
62.5
47.5
42.5
65.0
5 Classify colored blocks
80.0
55.0
67.5
87.5
6 Place objects into tray
87.5
67.5
70.0
90.0
7 Prepare coffee, long-horizon
52.5
0.0
7.5
40.0
Avg.
71.4
36.8
44.3
68.9
Statistical reliability. Table 9 reports 95% Wilson intervals for the real-robot success rates. Each task has 40 trials,
so the category means of Table 6 equal the success rates pooled over the 160 Mobile Manipulation trials and the 280
Manipulation trials of Table 7. On Mobile Manipulation, the intervals of UniWAM-Scaled and 𝜋0.5 do not overlap. On
Manipulation, the intervals of UniWAM-Scaled and 𝜋0.5 overlap, as do those of UniWAM-Base and 𝜋0.5 on Mobile
Manipulation. Hence, this comparison shows no clear difference between these pairs, while UniWAM-Base still docks
more accurately than 𝜋0.5. The intervals of UniWAM-Base and its real-robot ablations also overlap, so the ablation
conclusions rest on the error metrics together with the success rates. These intervals treat trials as independent and
ignore the shared initial configurations, so they are conservative for paired comparisons.
16


Table 8 Zero-shot real-robot MAP Navigation of models trained only on MAP-Data, averaged over the Cobot Magic and the AgiBot
G2. The bottom rows are models trained on real demonstrations, taken from Table 6.
Model
Training data
𝐸pos (cm)
𝐸head (◦)
𝜋0.5
MAP-Data only
55.1
11.4
GR00T N1.7
MAP-Data only
35.0
12.9
FastWAM
MAP-Data only
30.8
8.61
UniWAM-Sim
MAP-Data only
18.7
6.34
Reference: trained on real demonstrations
𝜋0.5
real task data
23.3
5.15
UniWAM-Base
real task data
15.1
4.91
Table 9 Real-robot success rates with 95% Wilson intervals, pooled over 160 Mobile Manipulation trials and 280 Manipulation trials
per method, matching the category means of Table 6. Brackets give the interval bounds.
Model
Mobile Manipulation SR (%)
Manipulation SR (%)
𝜋0.5
62.5 [54.8, 69.6]
71.4 [65.9, 76.4]
GR00T N1.7
39.4 [32.1, 47.1]
36.8 [31.4, 42.6]
UniWAM-Base
63.1 [55.4, 70.2]
44.3 [38.6, 50.1]
UniWAM-Scaled
80.0 [73.1, 85.5]
68.9 [63.3, 74.1]
w/o navigation auxiliary supervision
56.9 [49.1, 64.3]
43.6 [37.9, 49.4]
w/o manipulation auxiliary supervision
58.8 [51.0, 66.1]
39.3 [33.7, 45.1]
w/o independent sampling
60.0 [52.3, 67.3]
41.8 [36.2, 47.6]
4.4
Comparison of Unified Architectures
Fig. 5 and Table 10 compare four ways of unifying navigation and manipulation. All variants share the video DiT
initialization, training data, optimization budget, evaluation protocol, and image-plane auxiliary targets, and they are
evaluated on the four Mobile Manipulation tasks with the UniWAM-Base data. They differ only in how the two behaviors
are represented, processed, and sampled, which isolates the effect of the stream design.
(a) Unified Action Tokens. Following 𝜋0.5 [3], GR00T N1.7 [2], and FastWAM [41], each action token contains both
the navigation and manipulation dimensions, and one action DiT predicts the combined command.
(b) Separate Action Experts. Navigation and manipulation use separate action DiTs that share the video DiT, and each
action DiT predicts the command of its own behavior. This variant represents behavior-specific action experts in general
and is implemented within our framework, not as a reimplementation of a specific prior model. It therefore has more
parameters than the mixed-stream design, which uses one action DiT.
(c) Sequence-Concatenated Streams. This is a controlled variant, not a reimplementation of a prior method. Navigation
and manipulation action sequences are concatenated into one token sequence and processed by one action DiT, so the
two behaviors occupy different positions of one row and attend to each other.
(d) Mixed-Stream. In the proposed design, the two behaviors keep separate visual inputs, action encoders, and output
heads, share the video and action DiTs, and occupy separate batch rows.
The first three variants require navigation and manipulation targets in every sample, so they are trained with joint
sampling. We evaluate the mixed-stream design with both joint and independent sampling to separate the effect of the
architecture from that of sampling, since this is the only change between them.
Architecture. Under joint sampling, the mixed-stream design obtains the lowest docking errors, 18.6 cm and 5.87◦, and
ties Sequence-Concatenated Streams in success at 60.0%. Compared with Unified Action Tokens, it reduces position
and heading errors by 15.5% and 21.6% and improves success by 13.1 percentage points. Compared with Separate
Action Experts, it lowers position and heading errors by 5.6% and 3.1% and raises success by 5.6 percentage points,
despite a single shared action DiT. Relative to Sequence-Concatenated Streams, it reduces position and heading errors by
15.8% and 13.4% at the same success rate of 60.0%, so separating the streams into batch rows helps docking.
17


Video DiT
Action DiT
Video DiT
Action DiT
⋯
Unified Action Tokens
Video DiT
Manip DiT
Separate Action Experts
Nav DiT
𝒇!
"
𝒇#
"
𝒇$
"
𝒇!
%
𝒇$
%
𝒇!
%
𝒇$
%
𝒇#
"
𝒇$
"
⋯
⋯
⋯
⋯
𝒇!
"
𝒇#
"
𝒇$
"
𝒇#
"
𝒇$
"
⋯
𝑎!
&
𝑎$
&
⋯
⋯
𝑎!
&
𝑎$
&
𝑎!
'
𝑎$
'
𝑎!
'
𝑎$
'
⋯
⋯
Video DiT
Action DiT
Sequence-Concatenated Streams
⋯
𝒇!
"
𝒇#
"
𝒇$
"
𝒇#
"
𝒇$
"
⋯
𝑎!
&
𝑎$
&
⋯
⋯
𝑎!
&
𝑎$
&
𝑎!
'
𝑎$
'
𝑎!
'
𝑎$
'
⋯
⋯
Video DiT
Action DiT
⋯
Mixed-Stream (Ours)
𝒇!
"
𝒇#
"
𝒇$
"
𝒇!
%
𝒇$
%
𝒇!
%
𝒇$
%
𝒇#
"
𝒇$
"
⋯
⋯
⋯
Nav–Manip
Token
Manipulation 
Token
(a)
(d)
(b)
(c)
Navigation 
Token
Batch-Packed 
Action Tokens
Video Latent 
Token
Figure 5 Unified mobile-manipulation architectures compared in Table 10: (a) unified action tokens, (b) separate navigation and
manipulation action DiTs, (c) streams concatenated along the sequence axis, and (d) Mixed-Stream (ours), with streams in separate
batch rows of shared video and action DiTs and independent stream sampling.
Table 10 Architecture and sampling comparison on the four Mobile Manipulation tasks. (a) to (c) use joint sampling. (d) uses joint
or independent sampling, and the latter is UniWAM-Base as reported in Table 6.
Alternative architectures
(d) Mixed-stream
Metric
(a) Unified tokens
(b) Sep. experts
(c) Seq. concat.
Joint
Indep.
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
22.0
19.7
22.1
18.6
17.1
𝐸head (◦) ↓
7.49
6.06
6.78
5.87
5.30
SR (%) ↑
46.9
54.4
60.0
60.0
63.1
Sampling. In the mixed-stream design, independent sampling further reduces the errors from 18.6 cm and 5.87◦to
17.1 cm and 5.30◦and increases success from 60.0% to 63.1%. Both design choices reduce docking errors, and together
they give the highest success of all five variants in the table.
4.5
Ablation Studies
Each ablation changes one factor of UniWAM-Base with the data, training budget, and evaluation protocol fixed. Table 11
reports the MAP-Bench ablations, and Table 12 reports the real-robot ablations.
Pose targets. Replacing the relative pose target (Δ𝑥, Δ𝑦, Δ𝜃) with velocity commands (𝑣, 𝜔) increases the Overall errors
from 12.5 cm and 3.24◦to 16.3 cm and 4.17◦. The position error rises only from 7.71 to 8.30 cm at short range but from
21.0 to 30.9 cm at long range. The degradation grows with distance, consistent with velocity errors that accumulate over
time and with the bimodal velocity labels discussed in Sec. 3.2.1.
Causal mask. Removing the causal mask increases the Overall errors to 16.0 cm and 4.07◦and the long-range position
error from 21.0 to 29.0 cm. The mask lets later actions condition on the clean committed prefix without leaking
information from later noisy actions backward, which matters most over long approaches with many successive chunks.
Navigation auxiliary targets. The two navigation targets have different distance-dependent effects. Removing the target
box barely changes the short-range errors but raises the long-range errors from 21.0 cm and 4.29◦to 29.5 cm and 5.14◦,
suggesting that the box helps localize distant, small targets. Removing the projected MAP, which marks where the base
should stop, instead raises the short-range errors more than removing the box, from 7.71 cm and 2.37◦to 8.05 cm and
2.63◦. Removing both raises the Overall errors to 16.7 cm and 5.37◦, above those of GR00T N1.7 and 𝜋0.5, which
suggests that the two targets have complementary effects on docking.
Auxiliary supervision on real robots. Removing navigation auxiliary supervision changes MAP Navigation from
15.1 cm and 4.91◦to 17.6 cm and 6.84◦and lowers Mobile Manipulation success from 63.1% to 56.9%. Removing
manipulation auxiliary supervision leaves navigation close to the full model but lowers Manipulation success from
18


Table 11 Ablations of UniWAM-Base on MAP-Bench. The first row is the full model.
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
Overall
𝐸head (◦) ↓
Overall
Variant
Short
Mid
Long
Short
Mid
Long
UniWAM-Base
7.71
8.85
21.0
12.5
2.37
3.06
4.29
3.24
Velocity actions (𝑣, 𝜔)
8.30
9.57
30.9
16.3
3.03
3.29
6.19
4.17
w/o causal mask
8.83
10.1
29.0
16.0
3.21
3.50
5.49
4.07
w/o target box
7.74
9.29
29.5
15.5
2.43
3.02
5.14
3.53
w/o image-plane MAP
8.05
8.40
22.5
13.0
2.63
2.82
4.72
3.39
w/o both auxiliary targets
9.31
11.6
29.1
16.7
4.45
4.91
6.76
5.37
Table 12 Ablations of UniWAM-Base on real robots. The first row is the full model.
MAP Navigation
Mobile Manipulation
Manipulation
Variant
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
𝐸head (◦) ↓
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
𝐸head (◦) ↓
SR (%) ↑
SR (%) ↑
UniWAM-Base
15.1
4.91
17.1
5.30
63.1
44.3
w/o navigation auxiliary supervision
17.6
6.84
19.9
7.21
56.9
43.6
w/o manipulation auxiliary supervision
15.4
5.18
17.8
5.61
58.8
39.3
w/o independent sampling
16.8
5.62
18.6
5.87
60.0
41.8
44.3% to 39.3% and Mobile Manipulation success from 63.1% to 58.8%. Each auxiliary target has its largest effect on
its own stream, and Figs. 8 and 9 visualize these predictions.
Independent sampling. Removing independent sampling worsens all six real-robot metrics, raising the MAP Navigation
errors to 16.8 cm and 5.62◦and lowering Mobile Manipulation success to 60.0%. Independent sampling thus improves
both the navigation and the manipulation stream without any extra data.
Learnable tokens. Table 13 varies the number of learnable tokens per token bank over {0, 4, 8}, using the same count
for all four banks. Removing the tokens degrades all six metrics. The MAP Navigation errors increase from 15.1 cm and
4.91◦to 16.2 cm and 5.38◦, and Mobile Manipulation success drops from 63.1% to 61.9%. Explicit token identity thus
helps the shared DiTs distinguish the two streams. Increasing the count to eight changes each success rate by at most one
trial, from 63.1% to 63.8% and from 44.3% to 44.6%, and gives mixed error changes, so we use four tokens per bank.
Manipulation coordinate frame.
Table 14 compares camera-frame and robot-base end-effector targets under
multi-embodiment co-training. Camera-frame targets improve success on each reported embodiment and task group
and raise the unweighted mean from 48.5% to 55.2%. Following the alignment principle of Qwen-RobotManip [40],
expressing end-effector motion in the current camera frame makes visually similar motions numerically similar across
embodiments. The same visual change in the egocentric image then corresponds to similar action targets, regardless of
the base frame or arm geometry of each robot, which lets data from different embodiments reinforce one another. This
comparison covers co-training on these embodiments and does not evaluate transfer to unseen robots.
4.6
Qualitative Results
Trajectories. Fig. 7 compares the trajectories of all methods on 24 randomly selected MAP-Bench scenes with initial
distances from 1.6 to 4.2 m. The two VLN baselines show the typical failures of semantic navigation. InternVLA-N1
heads to a wrong region in many displayed scenes, for example in panels a to g. Uni-NaVid often reaches the vicinity of
the target but stops beside it, as in panels b, f, l, and n. The VLA and WAM baselines reach the target region in most
displayed scenes but show visible path deviations or terminal offsets, such as FastWAM in panels j and u and 𝜋0.5 in
panel r. Both UniWAM variants follow the reference path closely and end at the MAP in most displayed scenes. The
contrast is largest in the last two rows, where all initial distances are at least 3.5 m. There, the VLN baselines fail in most
displayed scenes and the other baselines deviate more often, whereas UniWAM remains close to the reference path, in
agreement with the long-range gains of both UniWAM variants in Table 4.
Auxiliary predictions. Fig. 8 overlays the target boxes and projected MAP positions that UniWAM predicts over
19


Mobile Manipulation
Manipulation
Stack six cups into a three-layer pyramid.
MAP Navigation
Navigate to 
the water dispenser.
Navigate to 
the humanoid robot.
Navigate to 
the TV cabinet.
Navigate to 
the cushion.
Navigate to 
the tool cabinet.
Insert the test tubes into the blue metal rack.
Insert the test tubes into the orange hollow plastic rack.
Move to the front of the table and place the loose items into the white storage box.
Approach the table and place each colored cube into the tray of the same color.
Place the medicine boxes in the green basket and the industrial parts in the blue basket.
Navigate to the table and clear the tabletop by placing the cups onto the tray.
Figure 6 Real-robot executions of UniWAM. A single UniWAM model performs MAP Navigation, Mobile Manipulation, and
Manipulation across four embodiments. The MAP Navigation examples dock at targets of different categories and sizes, the Mobile
Manipulation examples show the transition from approach to manipulation, and the Manipulation examples show object sorting,
test-tube insertion, and cup stacking.
20


(a) Tool Chest, 2.1 m
1 m
(b) Refrigerator, 2.5 m
1 m
(c) Stove, 3.4 m
1 m
(d) Plant, 2.5 m
1 m
(e) Printer, 2.0 m
1 m
(f) Pouf, 2.2 m
1 m
(g) Sink, 1.6 m
1 m
(h) Exercise Bike, 2.4 m
1 m
(i) Table, 3.1 m
1 m
(j) Cabinet, 3.2 m
1 m
(k) Dining Table, 3.0 m
1 m
(l) Table, 3.2 m
1 m
(m) Piano, 2.4 m
1 m
(n) Stool, 3.2 m
1 m
(o) Cabinet, 3.3 m
1 m
(p) Storage Bin, 2.4 m
1 m
(q) Desk, 3.5 m
1 m
(r) Ceremonial Robe, 3.8 m
1 m
(s) Dresser, 3.6 m
1 m
(t) Chair, 3.8 m
1 m
(u) Armchair, 3.7 m
1 m
(v) Piano, 4.2 m
1 m
(w) Chair, 4.0 m
1 m
(x) Dresser, 4.1 m
1 m
Reference
UniWAM-Base
UniWAM-Scaled
FastWAM
GR00T N1.7
π0.5
InternVLA-N1
Uni-NaVid
MAP
Start
Figure 7 MAP-Bench trajectories of all evaluated methods on 24 randomly selected scenes. Subcaptions give the target category and
initial distance. Stars mark the reference MAP, circles the start pose, and arrowheads the terminal heading. In the last two rows, every
episode starts at least 3.5 m from the MAP, which falls in the long range.
21


Table 13 Real-robot results for the number of learnable tokens per bank. † marks the default.
MAP Navigation
Mobile Manipulation
Manipulation
Tokens per bank
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
𝐸head (◦) ↓
𝐸pos (cm) ↓
𝐸head (◦) ↓
SR (%) ↑
SR (%) ↑
0
16.2
5.38
17.8
5.48
61.9
43.6
4, ours†
15.1
4.91
17.1
5.30
63.1
44.3
8
14.8
5.02
17.3
5.24
63.8
44.6
Table 14 Manipulation target frame in UniWAM-Base under multi-embodiment co-training. Values are success rates in percent.
Cobot Magic uses the Mobile Manipulation tasks, the dual Franka uses Manipulation tasks 1 to 3 and 7, and the AgileX single arm
uses Manipulation task 6. Mean is the unweighted mean over the three reported embodiment and task groups.
Target frame
Cobot Magic
Dual Franka
AgileX single arm
Mean
Robot base
55.0
28.1
62.5
48.5
Camera, ours
63.1
32.5
70.0
55.2
consecutive frames of MAP-Bench episodes. The boxes tightly enclose the target across object categories, scenes, and
viewing distances, from large targets that fill much of the view, such as the stove and the door, to smaller targets such as
the chairs. The boxes from consecutive frames nearly coincide, so the predictions remain stable over time rather than
jittering from frame to frame. The projected MAP lies on the floor directly in front of the manipulation-facing side of
the target, at the point where the base should stop. These observations match the ablation in Sec. 4.5. The box keeps the
target localized throughout the approach, and the MAP point marks the terminal pose.
End-effector predictions. Fig. 9 examines whether the predicted 2D end-effector tracks agree with the executed 3D
actions. Each curve is the track predicted for one arm in the previous action chunk, and each circle marks the actual
end-effector position after the robot executes that chunk. Across both arms, several tasks, and two embodiments,
the circles lie on the predicted tracks at the grippers. In other words, the image-plane tracks agree with where the
camera-frame actions actually move the end effectors. The manipulation stream has therefore learned a consistent
mapping from its 3D end-effector actions to their pixel locations in the main camera view of each embodiment.
4.7
Failure Cases
Grasping between adjacent objects. Fig. 10 shows a failure of UniWAM in the color-sorting task. A pink and a blue
cube stand next to each other on the table, and either may be picked next. Instead of committing to one of them, the
gripper descends toward the point between the two cubes and closes on the gap. The demonstrations contain grasps
of either cube, so the action distribution has two nearby modes. When the modes are close, the deterministic ten-step
sampler can produce an action between them rather than on one of them. We observed this failure when candidate
objects were close together, and specifying the target object in the instruction may reduce the ambiguity.
Residual base motion. During the manipulation stage, the navigation stream predicts motions that are close to but not
exactly zero, which can move the base slightly. The near-zero rule suppresses it for all methods.
Figure 10 Failure case in the color-sorting task. From left to right, a pink and a blue cube stand next to each other, and the gripper
descends toward the point between them and closes on the empty gap instead of a cube.
22


chair  1 · 0.5°
chair  2 · 4.3°
door  1 · 0.1°
door  2 · 1.6°
table  1 · 0.1°
table  2 · 2.6°
piano  1 · 0.5°
piano  2 · 2.2°
stove  1 · 0.0°
stove  2 · 2.0°
cabinet  1 · 0.3°
cabinet  2 · 3.6°
Target BBox
MAP
Figure 8 Navigation auxiliary predictions of UniWAM on MAP-Bench, overlaid over consecutive frames of each episode. Magenta
boxes are the predicted target boxes, and cyan points are the predicted MAP positions projected into the image, both predicted jointly
with the actions by the navigation stream of UniWAM at every step of the approach.
Figure 9 Alignment between predicted 2D end-effector tracks and executed 3D actions on several tasks and two embodiments.
Curves show the tracks of the two arms predicted in the previous action chunk, and circles mark the positions reached after that chunk.
5
Conclusion
We presented UniWAM, a mixed-stream world-action model that treats navigation and manipulation as two independently
sampled control streams over shared video and action DiTs, and the Manipulation Anchor Pose (MAP), an explicit
target for manipulation-ready navigation supported by over 1.5 million automatically generated MAP-Data episodes.
Independent sampling lets UniWAM learn directly from navigation-only and manipulation-only data, and image-plane
auxiliary supervision grounds the actions of both streams in the egocentric image. On MAP-Bench, UniWAM trained
23


with MAP-Data reduces position and heading errors by 30.1% and 44.0% relative to the strongest baselines. On 24
real-robot tasks across four embodiments, a single model trained with additional data achieves the most accurate docking
and the highest mobile-manipulation success while remaining competitive in manipulation.
Future work. We will conduct large-scale real-robot pretraining of the UniWAM architecture, combining diverse
real-robot demonstrations with MAP-Data, and study how the mixed-stream design scales with robot data.
References
[1] Hongzhe Bi, Hengkai Tan, Shenghao Xie, Zeyuan Wang, Shuhe Huang, Haitian Liu, Ruowen Zhao, Yao Feng, et al. Motus: A
unified latent action world model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.13030, 2025.
[2] Johan Bjorck, Fernando Casta˜neda, Nikita Cherniadev, Xingye Da, Runyu Ding, Linxi Fan, Yu Fang, Dieter Fox, Fengyuan Hu,
Spencer Huang, et al. GR00T N1: An open foundation model for generalist humanoid robots. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14734,
2025.
[3] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn,
Niccolo Fusai, Manuel Y. Galliker, et al. 𝜋0.5: A vision-language-action model with open-world generalization. In Conference
on Robot Learning, 2025.
[4] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy Groom, et al. 𝜋0:
A vision-language-action flow model for general robot control. In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2025.
[5] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, et al. RT-1: Robotics transformer
for real-world control at scale. In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2023.
[6] Kaixin Chai, Hyunjun Lee, and Joseph J. Lim. N2M: Bridging navigation and manipulation by learning pose preference from
rollout. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.18671, 2025.
[7] Guangyu Chen, Qiwei Liang, Shaolong Zhu, Tianxing Chen, Zikuan Xiao, Yifan Xie, Lingfeng Zhang, Ping Luo, Renjing
Xu, and Wenbo Ding. MoPA: Coordinated mobile manipulation via subsystem-specific perception alignment. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2609.12081, 2026.
[8] Jizhuo Chen, Diwen Liu, Jiaming Wang, and Harold Soh. GBPP: Grasp-aware base placement prediction for robots via two-stage
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.11594, 2026.
[9] Ronghan Chen, Yandan Yang, Zuojin Tang, Dongjie Huo, Tong Lin, Haoning Wu, Haoyun Liu, Yuzhi Chen, et al. ABot-M0.5:
Unified mobility-and-manipulation world action model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.00678, 2026.
[10] Cheng Chi, Siyuan Feng, Yilun Du, Zhenjia Xu, Eric Cousineau, Benjamin Burchfiel, and Shuran Song. Diffusion policy:
Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion. In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2023.
[11] Ria Doshi, Homer Rich Walke, Oier Mees, Sudeep Dasari, and Sergey Levine. Scaling cross-embodied learning: One policy for
manipulation, navigation, locomotion and aviation. In Conference on Robot Learning, 2024.
[12] Zehua Fan, Junjie He, Wenxuan Song, Xi Wang, Wenqi Lyu, Linge Zhao, Fuhao Li, Zihan You, et al. MobileWAM: Bridging
world action models to mobile manipulation with chain-of-foresight. arXiv preprint arXiv:2608.04657, 2026.
[13] Zipeng Fu, Tony Z. Zhao, and Chelsea Finn. Mobile ALOHA: Learning bimanual mobile manipulation with low-cost whole-body
teleoperation. In Conference on Robot Learning, 2024.
[14] Peter E. Hart, Nils J. Nilsson, and Bertram Raphael. A formal basis for the heuristic determination of minimum cost paths.
IEEE Transactions on Systems Science and Cybernetics, 4(2):100–107, 1968.
[15] InternNav Team. InternVLA-N1: An open dual-system navigation foundation model with learned latent plans. Technical report,
2025. URL https://internrobotics.github.io/internvla-n1.github.io/.
[16] Moo Jin Kim, Yihuai Gao, Tsung-Yi Lin, Yen-Chen Lin, Yunhao Ge, Grace Lam, Percy Liang, Shuran Song, et al. Cosmos
policy: Fine-tuning video models for visuomotor control and planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.16163, 2026.
[17] Lin Li, Qihang Zhang, Yiming Luo, Shuai Yang, Ruilin Wang, Fei Han, Mingrui Yu, Zelin Gao, et al. Causal world modeling
for robot control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.21998, 2026.
[18] Weixin Liang, Lili Yu, Liang Luo, Srinivasan Iyer, Ning Dong, Chunting Zhou, et al. Mixture-of-transformers: A sparse and
scalable architecture for multi-modal foundation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.04996, 2024.
24


[19] Yaron Lipman, Ricky T. Q. Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matt Le. Flow matching for generative modeling. In
The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=Pq
vMRDCJT9t.
[20] Bingchen Miao, Rong Wei, Zhiqi Ge, Xiaoquan Sun, Shiqi Gao, Jingzhe Zhu, Renhan Wang, Siliang Tang, Jun Xiao, Rui
Tang, and Juncheng Li. Towards physically executable 3D gaussian for embodied navigation. In The Fourteenth International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2026.
[21] Maxime Oquab, Timoth´ee Darcet, Th´eo Moutakanni, Huy Vo, Marc Szafraniec, Vasil Khalidov, Pierre Fernandez, Daniel
Haziza, Francisco Massa, Alaaeldin El-Nouby, et al. DINOv2: Learning robust visual features without supervision. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2304.07193, 2023.
[22] Jonas Pai, Liam Achenbach, Victoriano Montesinos, Benedek Forrai, Oier Mees, and Elvis Nava. mimic-video: Video-action
models for generalizable robot control beyond VLAs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.15692, 2025.
[23] Physical Intelligence, Bo Ai, Ali Amin, Raichelle Aniceto, Ashwin Balakrishna, et al. 𝜋0.7: A steerable generalist robotic
foundation model with emergent capabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.15483, 2026.
[24] Santhosh Kumar Ramakrishnan, Aaron Gokaslan, Erik Wijmans, Oleksandr Maksymets, Alexander Clegg, John M. Turner,
Eric Undersander, Wojciech Galuba, Andrew Westbury, Angel X. Chang, et al. Habitat-matterport 3d dataset (HM3D): 1000
large-scale 3d environments for embodied AI. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks
Track, 2021.
[25] Ruisen Tu, Arth Shukla, Sohyun Yoo, Xuanlin Li, Junxi Li, Jianwen Xie, Hao Su, and Zhuowen Tu. SG-VLA: Learning
spatially-grounded vision-language-action models for mobile manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.22760, 2026.
[26] Nikolaus Vahrenkamp, Tamim Asfour, and R¨udiger Dillmann. Robot placement based on reachability inversion. In IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1970–1975, 2013.
[27] Wan Team, Ang Wang, Baole Ai, Bin Wen, Chaojie Mao, Chen-Wei Xie, et al. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video
generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20314, 2025.
[28] Lirui Wang, Xinlei Chen, Jialiang Zhao, and Kaiming He. Scaling proprioceptive-visual learning with heterogeneous pre-trained
transformers. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024.
[29] Meng Wei, Chenyang Wan, Jiaqi Peng, Xiqian Yu, Yuqiang Yang, Delin Feng, Wenzhe Cai, Chenming Zhu, Tai Wang, Jiangmiao
Pang, and Xihui Liu. Ground slow, move fast: A dual-system foundation model for generalizable vision-language navigation. In
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2026.
[30] Zhenyu Wu, Angyuan Ma, Xiuwei Xu, Hang Yin, Yinan Liang, Ziwei Wang, Jiwen Lu, and Haibin Yan. MoTo: A zero-shot
plug-in interaction-aware navigation for general mobile manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.01658, 2025.
[31] Zhenyu Wu, Yuheng Zhou, Xiuwei Xu, Ziwei Wang, and Haibin Yan. MoManipVLA: Transferring vision-language-action
models for general mobile manipulation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2025.
[32] Xiaomi Robotics Team, Jun Guo, Piaopiao Jin, Jason Li, Peiyan Li, Yingyan Li, Futeng Liu, Wanli Peng, et al. Xiaomi-Robotics-1:
Scaling vision-language-action models with over 100k hours of real-world trajectories. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.15330, 2026.
[33] Xiaomeng Xu, Jisang Park, Han Zhang, Eric Cousineau, Aditya Bhat, Jose Barreiros, Dian Wang, Jeannette Bohg, and Shuran
Song. HoMMI: Learning whole-body mobile manipulation from human demonstrations. In Robotics: Science and Systems,
2026.
[34] Karmesh Yadav, Ram Ramrakhya, Santhosh Kumar Ramakrishnan, Theo Gervet, John Turner, Aaron Gokaslan, Noah Maestre,
Angel X. Chang, Dhruv Batra, Manolis Savva, et al. Habitat-matterport 3d semantics dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.05633,
2022.
[35] Donglin Yang, Haoran Chen, Xingyu Chen, Lixing Liu, Manyi Li, Changhe Tu, Ke Xu, Xiaojian Ma, and Si Liu. Learning
panorama-aware VLA for mobile manipulation with whole-body teleoperation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2608.02257, 2026.
[36] Jingyun Yang, Isabella Huang, Brandon Vu, Max Bajracharya, Rika Antonova, and Jeannette Bohg. Mobi-𝜋: Mobilizing your
robot learning policy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.23692, 2025.
[37] Zheng Yang, Wenjie Zhang, Xiangyu Chen, Wenxuan Song, Xianpeng Wang, Yihang Kang, Jiawen Wen, Wen Chen, et al.
DreamTrajectory: Trajectory-guided action generation with world model alignment for mobile manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2608.01381, 2026.
25


[38] Seonghyeon Ye, Yunhao Ge, Kaiyuan Zheng, Shenyuan Gao, Sihyun Yu, George Kurian, Suneel Indupuru, You Liang Tan,
Chuning Zhu, Jiannan Xiang, et al. World action models are zero-shot policies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.15922, 2026.
[39] Sriram Yenamandra, Arun Ramachandran, Karmesh Yadav, Austin Wang, Mukul Khanna, Theophile Gervet, Tsung-Yen Yang,
Vidhi Jain, Alexander William Clegg, John Turner, et al. HomeRobot: Open-vocabulary mobile manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.11565, 2023.
[40] Haoqi Yuan, Zhixuan Liang, Anzhe Chen, Ye Wang, Haoyang Li, Pei Lin, Yiyang Huang, Zixing Lei, Tong Zhang, Jiazhao
Zhang, et al. Qwen-RobotManip technical report: Alignment unlocks scale for robotic manipulation foundation models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2606.17846, 2026.
[41] Tianyuan Yuan, Zibin Dong, Yicheng Liu, and Hang Zhao. Fast-WAM: Do world action models need test-time future
imagination? arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.16666, 2026.
[42] Jiazhao Zhang, Kunyu Wang, Shaoan Wang, Minghan Li, Haoran Liu, Songlin Wei, Zhongyuan Wang, Zhizheng Zhang, and
He Wang. Uni-NaVid: A video-based vision-language-action model for unifying embodied navigation tasks. In Robotics:
Science and Systems, 2025.
[43] Pingrui Zhang, Xianqiang Gao, Yuhan Wu, Kehui Liu, Dong Wang, Zhigang Wang, Bin Zhao, Yan Ding, and Xuelong Li.
MoMa-Kitchen: A 100k+ benchmark for affordance-grounded last-mile navigation in mobile manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.11081, 2025.
[44] Zhuofan Zhang, Tianxu Wang, Guoxi Zhang, Yixiong Lin, Xilin Wang, Hongming Xu, Qing Li, Song-Chun Zhu, and Lifeng
Fan. UniLM-Nav: A unified framework for zero-shot last-mile navigation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.06537, 2026.
[45] Ping Zhong, Manling Teng, Tao Wu, Bolei Chen, Jiazhi Xia, and Jianxin Wang. FloAff-Kitchen: Bridging navigation and
manipulation via canonical and progressive floor affordance learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.24207, 2026.
[46] Yi Zhou, Connelly Barnes, Jingwan Lu, Jimei Yang, and Hao Li. On the continuity of rotation representations in neural networks.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 5745–5753, 2019.
[47] Lawrence Y. Zhu, Pranav Kuppili, Ryan Punamiya, Patcharapong Aphiwetsa, Dhruv Patel, Simar Kareer, Sehoon Ha, and Danfei
Xu. EMMA: Scaling mobile manipulation via egocentric human data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.04443, 2025.
[48] Xiangyu Zhu, Renjun Wu, Luzhou Ge, Jinyan Liu, and Xuesong Li. GeoHAT: Geometry-adaptive hybrid action transformer for
mobile manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.13394, 2026.
26
