Benchmarking Dexterity of
Multifingered Robot
Hands: A Review and
Perspective
Anthony Shilati1, Anunth Ramaswami1, Luke
Batteas1, Sylvia Tan1, Anthony Barcio2, Sairam
Umakanth1, Preksha Rao2, David McDougall2,
Landry Graves2, Ahmet A. Ozkan3, Yunsoo
Yoon1, Arushi Pradhan2, Michael G. Henry4,
Rohan Kota1, Damian Gonzalez1, Gray C.
Thomas2, Gary K. Fedder3, J. Edward
Colgate1, and Kevin M. Lynch1
US National Science Foundation HAND Engineering Research Center
1Center for Robotics and Biosystems, Northwestern Univ., Evanston, IL, USA
2Department of Mechanical Engineering, Texas A&M Univ., College Station,
TX, USA
3Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon Univ.,
Pittsburgh, PA, USA
4Department of Mechanical Engineering, Florida A&M Univ., Tallahassee, FL,
USA
Corresponding authors: anthony.shilati@northwestern.edu,
kmlynch@northwestern.edu
To be published in the Annual Review of
Control, Robotics, and Autonomous
Systems, Volume 10, 2027
Keywords
benchmarking, robot dexterity, multifingered hands, in-hand
manipulation, mechanical transparency
Abstract
Robot hands are a key interface between AI and the physical world,
making advances in robotic dexterity essential to realizing the vision
of physical AI. While impressive dexterity has been demonstrated with
simple grippers, multifingered hands offer the potential for substantially
greater versatility, precision, and adaptability in manipulation.
In this review, we survey the state of the art in benchmarking the
dexterity of multifingered robot hands.
Recognizing dexterity as a
complex and multifaceted concept, we present the perspective of the
U.S. National Science Foundation HAND Engineering Research Cen-
ter, with a particular focus on fine in-hand manipulation.
We in-
troduce a framework consisting of three benchmark levels that cor-
respond to increasing system complexity, review representative bench-
marks at each level, and propose new benchmarks and metrics to ad-
dress limitations in the literature.
More information can be found
at https://hand-erc.github.io/benchmarking/.
1
arXiv:2609.05585v1  [cs.RO]  4 Sep 2026


1. INTRODUCTION
The US NSF Human AugmentatioN via Dexterity Engineering Research Center (HAND
ERC, https://hand-erc.org) is a consortium working to revolutionize robotic dexterity.
Advanced robot dexterity will enable individuals with motor impairments to live fuller,
more independent lives; improve the quality of manufacturing jobs while making workers
more productive; address changing demographics and labor shortages; make supply chains
less susceptible to disruption; increase the productivity of small and medium enterprises;
and democratize access to the benefits of robotics.
To advance dexterity, we must benchmark it. Benchmarks should measure progress and,
ideally, provide actionable feedback to system designers.
But how do we define dexterity? While there is no universally accepted definition (1),
our working definition is that dexterity is the capacity to use contact to effect desired changes
to the physical world, or learn properties of the physical world, efficiently and reliably across
tasks and conditions. We consider manual dexterity to be a dynamic negotiation between
hands, objects being manipulated, and the environment.
Hands do not simply dictate
motions of manipulanda; instead, they are responsive to, and work in concert with, physical
constraints imposed by the task and environment.
Given this broad definition, benchmarking hand dexterity is ill-defined, requiring the
imposition of a perspective. In this review paper, we provide the current perspective of the
HAND ERC, embracing the fact that this perspective will continue to evolve.
1.1. The Relevance of In-Hand Manipulation to Dexterity
Manipulation may be classified as prehensile (object(s) are grasped) or nonprehensile (no
grasp is established, as in pushing) (Figure 1(a)). Within the prehensile category, hands may
employ a fixed grasp, e.g., “pick and place,” or they may perform in-hand manipulation,
where grasped objects move relative to the palm. With a fixed grasp, the primary job of
the fingers is to immobilize the object(s) while the arm(s) perform the motion-, force-, or
impedance-controlled manipulation. With in-hand manipulation, the fingers — with their
smaller size, lower impedance, and higher control bandwidth — play a more versatile role
in fine control of grasped objects. Examples of in-hand manipulation include writing with
a pen, changing the orientation of a phone in the hand, and many types of tool use. For
hands with fingers with fewer than six degrees of freedom, which includes essentially all
robot hands, a simple kinematic analysis shows that in-hand manipulation requires relative
motion at contacts, e.g., rolling, sliding, twisting, or some combination.
These relative
motions can be achieved by finger motions (2, 3), inertial loads (4), and contact with the
environment (5).
While nonprehensile or fixed-grasp dexterity can be achieved with simple grippers (6, 7),
hooks (8), and even zero-actuator end-effectors (9), multifingered hands offer the possibility
of far more versatile in-hand manipulation and better exploitation of tools and infrastructure
developed for human hands. Accordingly, this paper focuses on benchmarking dexterity
with multifingered robot hands, with a particular focus on sensitive control of finger contact
forces.
2
Shilati et al.


sensing
actuators
transmission
(a)
in-hand 
manipulation
ﬁxed grasp
nonprehensile 
manipulation
(b)
wrist
forearm
ﬁnger
palm
skin
(c)
increasing system integration and complexity
C



H

S


	

A



Figure 1: (a) A manipulation task demonstrating direct manipulation of chopsticks and in-
direct manipulation of the dumpling through tools (the chopsticks). This task also demon-
strates the three major types of manipulation: nonprehensile manipulation (pushing the
dumpling with chopsticks), fixed grasp manipulation (of the bottom chopstick), and in-
hand manipulation (of the top chopstick). (b) Components of a robot hand considered in
this review. (c) Four dexterity benchmarking levels, from the lowest component level to
the highest application level. The sensitivity of performance to design decisions becomes
increasingly complex to estimate for higher-level benchmarks.
1.2. Multifingered Hands
A multifingered hand (Figure 1(b)) has two or more articulated fingers branching from
a palm, which itself may be rigid or articulated.
Each finger is driven by at least one
actuator and may have passive or coupled degrees of freedom. Finger actuators generate
torque directly at the joint or are remotized to the palm or forearm, for example, using
tendons (10, 11) or linkages (12). At-the-joint and remote actuation are called intrinsic
and extrinsic actuation, respectively, in (13). A wrist, connecting the palm to the forearm,
can provide significant rotational mobility to the palm without requiring large, volume-
sweeping motions of the arm. Surfaces of a multifingered hand can be covered with tactile
sensors, to provide localized feedback, and artificial skin, to provide stabilizing compliance
and large contact patches.
Although we use shorthand terms like forearm, wrist, palm, and finger for multifinger
hands, this review is not limited to anthropomorphic robot hands.
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
3


1.3. Dexterity Benchmarking Levels
In this review, a benchmark is a test protocol that yields scores for one or more metrics,
such as success rate, speed of completion, or throughput. Some metrics, such as the number
of degrees of freedom of a hand, can be evaluated without performing a test.
Ultimately, the utility of a dexterous system may be judged by its value in practical
applications in manufacturing, home health care, logistics, and other domains. Application-
level dexterity benchmarks consider socioeconomic factors, human acceptance, return on
investment, and other considerations impacting the practical adoption of dexterous robotics.
Such considerations are beyond the scope of this paper.
Our focus begins with the ability of a robot system to perform short-horizon “atomic”
dexterous manipulation tasks. Consider making a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. This is
a long-horizon task requiring both dexterity and “cognition” (e.g., conditional sequencing
or planning), while short-horizon subtasks, like twisting the lid on a peanut butter jar,
focus on dexterity. Evaluating a short-horizon manipulation task like jar-capping requires
a fully integrated manipulation system, including hands, robot arms, vision, control, AI,
possibly teleoperation, and more. Because of the high level of integration needed to perform
short-horizon benchmark tasks, we call these system-level benchmarks. An example system-
level metric is the average time needed to twist a lid on a jar.
Most previous work on
benchmarking robot dexterity is at the system or long-horizon level.
Benchmarks ideally provide actionable feedback to dexterous system designers. Concep-
tually, let D represent a set of scalar-valued design variables and S represent performance
scores on system-level benchmarks. The dependence of S on D can be written S(D). Then
(∂S/∂D)|D0 could represent system-level performance sensitivity to changes in design rela-
tive to an initial design D0. Given the complexity of the fully integrated system, however,
these sensitivities may be difficult to establish. For example, how sensitive is performance
in the jar-capping task to the spatial resolution of tactile sensing?
To help address this attribution problem, we define additional lower-level benchmarks,
called hand-level and component-level benchmarks. An example of a component-level met-
ric is the spatial resolution of tactile sensing, as it depends primarily on tactile sensing
components of the hand. Examples of hand-level metrics are the bandwidth and accuracy
of fingertip force control, which depend on several factors, such as the mechanical design, ac-
tuation, and feedback control of the finger. Although a complete dexterous system involves
many components in addition to those of the hand (e.g., vision hardware, AI algorithms,
etc.), in this review, we focus on hand hardware components.
Component-, hand-, system-, and application-level benchmarks exist on a spectrum
of increasing system integration and complexity (Figure 1(c)).
We define C and H to
be the component- and hand-level benchmarking performance. To estimate the sensitiv-
ity ∂S/∂D, it may be easier to estimate analogs of the sensitivities ∂S/∂H, ∂H/∂C, and
∂C/∂D, establishing a sensitivity chain from design decisions to full system performance,
e.g., ∂S/∂D = (∂S/∂H)(∂H/∂C)(∂C/∂D).1
1This type of continuous sensitivity analysis cannot capture the effects of qualitative shifts of
strategy, e.g., “Fosbury flop” revolutions (14).
4
Shilati et al.


2. SYSTEM-LEVEL BENCHMARKING
Existing system-level dexterity benchmarks generally fall into two categories: (1) those
derived from human hand-centric grasp and manipulation taxonomies and (2) tasks that
are agnostic of the manipulator. In this review, we examine both perspectives and highlight
the need for principled hardware-agnostic benchmarks.
2.1. Taxonomy-Inspired Benchmarks
Manipulation benchmarks have been developed based on human grasp taxonomies (Sec-
tion 3.2) and human in-hand manipulation. Elliott and Connolly (15) proposed categoriz-
ing in-hand manipulation into 13 movement classes based on finger synergies and sequential
movement patterns. Exner (16) developed a taxonomy that decomposes in-hand manipula-
tion into translational and rotational movements, though this framework is more commonly
used in clinical contexts. While these taxonomies focus strictly on human in-hand manip-
ulation, Bullock et al. (17) proposed a broader taxonomy that generalizes across tasks and
hand morphologies by categorizing hand-object interactions through contact relationships
rather than anthropomorphic movement primitives. These frameworks primarily focus on
single-hand rigid-body manipulation; coordinated multi-hand and deformable object inter-
action have been addressed in more recent extensions, such as those proposed by Krebs and
Asfour (18) and Blanco-Mulero et al. (19).
These taxonomies have informed several system-level robotic hand benchmarking ef-
forts. Zhou et al. (20) combined the grasp taxonomy of Feix et al. (21) with the in-hand
manipulation categories of Bullock et al. (17) to construct 50 benchmark tasks spanning
both grasping and in-hand manipulation behaviors. Their evaluation of in-hand manipula-
tion performance relies largely on qualitative descriptions of smoothness and stability. To
address this limitation, Coulson et al. (22) proposed a benchmark derived from the manipu-
lation patterns of Elliott and Connolly (15) using the standardized set of YCB objects (23)
(Figure 2(a)).
Their framework combines qualitative success metrics with quantitative
measures of average rotation and translation, normalized by finger length to enable fair
comparison across robotic hands.
Recently, Liconti et al. (24) proposed the POMDAR benchmark, which addresses both
grasp-centric and task-centric benchmarking. POMDAR tests six grasps and twelve atomic
manipulation tasks (Figure 2(b)), targeting coverage across the taxonomies of Elliott and
Connolly (15), Feix et al. (21), and Bullock et al. (17). Performance is evaluated using a
throughput metric that combines task success rate and completion time.
2.2. Task-Centric Benchmarks
While these human hand taxonomy-driven benchmarks provide a structured methodology
for benchmark design, they inherit anthropomorphic assumptions. Clinical dexterity as-
sessments provide an alternative framework based on tasks related to activities of daily
living. Tests such as Jebsen–Taylor (25), the Southampton Hand Assessment Procedure
(SHAP) (26), the Chedoke Arm and Hand Activity Inventory (CAHAI) (27, 28), and “box
and blocks” (29) evaluate dexterity through standardized functional tasks, emphasizing task
completion capability over specific movement patterns. This task-centric perspective pro-
vides a foundation for creating embodiment-agnostic dexterous manipulation benchmarks.
In this vein, many robot manipulation benchmarks focus on constructing representative
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
5


Figure 2: Examples of existing system-level dexterity benchmarks. Grasp taxonomy-
inspired benchmarks: (a) CMU Foam Hand III performing Elliott and Connolly ma-
nipulation patterns (adapted from (22) with permission). (b) Equipment for evaluating
the POMDAR benchmarks (adapted from (24) with permission). Task-centric domain-
specific benchmarks: (c) NIST taskboards (adapted from (30) with permission). (d)
Dyson household clothing benchmark (adapted from (31) with permission). Task-centric
large-scale simulation benchmarks: (e) RLBench simulations (adapted from (32) with
permission). (f) ManiSkill3 implementations (adapted from (33) with permission).
task suites for specific manipulation domains. For example, Kimble et al. (30) introduced
the NIST assembly task boards designed to replicate manufacturing operations such as
threading, snap fitting, and gear meshing, evaluating systems using completion time and
reliability metrics (Figure 2(c)). Cruciani et al. (34) proposed an in-hand manipulation
benchmark using YCB objects (23), with performance measured by error in the final object
pose and fingertip locations.
Similarly, deformable manipulation benchmarks proposed
by Lin et al. (35), Chen et al. (36), and Clark et al. (31) provide task suites tailored to
deformable object interaction, employing metrics specific to object deformation outcomes
(Figure 2(d)).
Beyond domain-specific benchmarks, the rise of data-driven robot manipulation has mo-
tivated the development of large-scale simulation benchmarks designed to evaluate perfor-
mance across diverse manipulation scenarios. Many of these benchmarks are tied to specific
manipulator embodiments, including single-arm parallel-jaw gripper systems (32, 37, 38)
(Figure 2(e)), bimanual parallel-jaw gripper systems (39, 40), single-arm multifingered
hands (41, 42), and bimanual hand systems (43, 44).
Others, such as ManiSkill3 (33)
(Figure 2(f)) and RoboMIND (45), seek to generalize across many manipulation embodi-
ments and domains. Rather than focusing on a particular niche of robot manipulation, these
benchmarks provide broad coverage through diverse manipulanda, manipulation skills (e.g.,
6
Shilati et al.


reaching, pushing, and insertion), and long-horizon interaction scenarios.
A common challenge in constructing such benchmarks is determining which tasks should
be included to achieve broad coverage of manipulation capabilities. To address this problem,
Wang et al. (43) propose a data-driven methodology for benchmark construction. Rather
than manually defining benchmark tasks, the authors extracted interaction primitives from
large-scale robot learning datasets such as Open X-Embodiment (46) and AgiBot World (47)
and used a large language model to organize and expand these primitives into a diverse set
of manipulation activities. The resulting task suite was then refined through expert review
to produce a benchmark suite of 100 representative manipulation tasks, which they call the
Great March 100.
While these benchmarks provide broad coverage of manipulation tasks, many are in-
tended to be tested in simulation, which struggles to fully capture sensing noise, contact
dynamics, hardware variability, and environmental uncertainty encountered by physical
robotic systems. To address these limitations, ManipulationNet (48) proposes a framework
for real-world robot manipulation benchmarking based on reproducible hardware kits (sim-
ilar to the NIST task boards) and a unified evaluation client. The benchmark currently
includes five representative tasks spanning Physical Skills and Embodied Reasoning tracks,
evaluating both low-level manipulation capabilities and higher-level embodied intelligence.
More importantly, its standardized infrastructure enables new tasks to be incorporated in
a consistent and reproducible manner, allowing the benchmark to evolve while maintaining
comparability across research groups and robotic platforms.
The benchmarks above consist primarily of long-horizon tasks requiring both cognition
and dexterity. Recent work toward atomic manipulation benchmarks includes that of Ra-
jeswaran et al. (49), who identified four broad classes of dexterous manipulation, namely
object relocation, in-hand manipulation, manipulation of environmental props, and tool use.
To represent these categories, they proposed a benchmark suite consisting of four atomic
tasks: relocating a sphere, manipulating a pen within the hand, opening a door, and ham-
mering a nail. By selecting a single representative task for each category, the benchmark
seeks to capture the core capabilities required for dexterous manipulation while maintaining
a compact evaluation suite.
DexBench (50) adopts a task-based perspective, characterizing manipulation tasks along
six “orthogonal” object state complexity (OSC) axes, including geometric complexity, force
sensitivity, contact mode complexity, observation incompleteness, deformable complexity,
and dynamic/temporal complexity. A particular manipulation task can be assigned a scalar
value along each of these six dimensions, forming the “OSC vector” for the task. DexBench
proposes 56 evaluation cases sorted into 18 task categories, a mix of atomic manipulation
tasks and long-horizon tasks, intended to test different regions of the OSC space.
2.3. Perspective
To benchmark the dexterity of our own flagship Dexterity Nexus bimanual research testbed
(DexNex (51, 52)) as it evolves over the next several years, we have recently defined a
set of system-level dexterity benchmark tasks. Our choices were biased toward (1) atomic
tasks that test different features of dexterity; (2) a compact benchmark suite (fewer than
20 tasks); (3) tasks spanning a wide range of difficulty and task characteristics, as discussed
below; (4) where possible, tasks with previous support in the literature, as reviewed above
(Table 1); and (5) tasks that are likely to benefit from in-hand manipulation, beyond fixed-
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
7


Benchmark category
Subcategory
References
Taxonomy-inspired
benchmarks
Grasp/movement primitive
benchmarks
(20, 22)
Atomic task benchmarks
(24)
Task-centric
benchmarks
Clinical dexterity tests
(25–29)
Domain-specific benchmarks
(30, 31, 34, 35)
Large-scale simulation
benchmarks
(32, 33, 36–45)
Atomic task benchmarks
(48–50)
Table 1: Existing system-level benchmarks.
grasp manipulation where the hands’ main role is to affix objects to the arms. Although
most benchmark tasks are defined independent of the solution hardware or strategy, we
expect that in-hand manipulation will lead to better scores for many.
Benchmark tasks were chosen to test different combinations of the following character-
istics of dexterous tasks:
• direct vs. indirect (e.g., tool use) manipulation
• rigidity of manipulanda and the environment
• size of manipulanda relative to the hands
• number of degrees of freedom that must be controlled (e.g., number of objects, de-
formability)
• constraint complexity (number of active equality and inequality environmental con-
straints, tolerance, rigidity; utility of motion, force, and impedance control)
• constraint change during the task (e.g., establishing and breaking contacts during
assembly and disassembly)
• quasistatic vs. dynamic (e.g., whether the task requires exploitation of dynamics)
Each benchmark task consists of a name; a description of the base task, including materials,
start state, and success and failure criteria; metrics; a justification for the task based on
the descriptors above; and parametric variations of the base task to allow adjusting task
difficulty.
A summary of the HAND system-level benchmark tasks is given in Table 2.
We expect to modify this task set over time as dexterous systems become more capable.
More details can be found at the HAND ERC benchmarking website, https://hand-erc.
github.io/benchmarking/.
3. HAND-LEVEL BENCHMARKING
With the increasing number of multifingered robot hands coming to market, standard entries
are beginning to emerge for robot hand datasheets. Typical entries include weight, number
of fingers, number of actuators, total number of degrees of freedom (including passive and
coupled degrees of freedom), a characterization of the hand’s size and workspace (e.g.,
range of motion of the joints, Kapandji score measuring the thumb’s ability to oppose the
fingers (53), and minimum and maximum grip diameter), fingertip position repeatability
and accuracy (possibly including joint backlash), speed (such as maximum joint speed,
8
Shilati et al.


Task name
Description
Box and blocks
Transfer as many small wooden blocks as possible, one at a time, from a
cluttered bin to another bin within 60 seconds (29).
Peg-in-hole
Insert pegs of various shapes and tolerances into the NIST Assembly
Taskboard M1 (30).
Pick up flat object
Grasp and lift an M6 washer initially resting flat on a rigid tabletop (50).
Tie a knot
Tie a string on a knot board into a tight overhand knot.
Twist lid on jar
Pick up a regular mouth Mason jar lid from a table and thread and
tighten it onto a fixed jar.
Use screwdriver
Beginning with a partially threaded screw, grasp a screwdriver and use it
to drive the screw into a threaded hole.
Use scissors
Pick up and use scissors to cut out a circle drawn on a piece of A4 printer
paper.
Fasten button
Insert a button through a buttonhole on a buttoning board and fully
fasten the button.
In-hand
reorientation
Change the orientation of a small rectangular prism from one stable
grasp to another.
Spin a top
Spin a hand-spun top so that it remains upright as long as possible.
Use chopsticks
Use a pair of chopsticks to grasp small wooden cubes individually and
transfer them into a target container (box and blocks with chopsticks).
Blindly retrieve an
object in clutter
Retrieve a rigid object of a particular shape from among several
distractor objects in a box without exteroceptive sensing (e.g., vision).
Bundle socks
Bundle two socks by rolling the socks together and tucking one sock cuff
over the other.
Zip a zipper
Zip and unzip a garment zipper on a task board.
Paper folding
Fold a piece of A4 paper in half with a sharp crease.
Bundle dowels with
a rubber band
Gather seven dowels into a compact bundle and secure them by wrapping
a rubber band around the bundle twice.
Table 2: Summary of current HAND system-level benchmarks.
fingertip speed, or open-close cycle frequency), and strength (such as maximum fingertip
force, pinch force, grasping force, and/or some measure of payload capacity). These entries
largely track established entries for the more mature datasheets of robot arms: weight,
degrees of freedom, workspace, repeatability, accuracy, maximum joint speed, and maximum
payload.
Unlike robot arms, however, robot hands do their most important work when they are
engaged in a dynamic, responsive, and often delicate negotiation with manipulated objects
and their environment, e.g., when managing the transition from six degrees of freedom to a
single degree of freedom when threading a nut onto a bolt. Such tasks benefit from in-hand
manipulation and low-impedance force control. In short, along the chain from proximal
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
9


arm links to the distal links of the fingers directly engaged with the environment, masses
and inertias drop significantly, and there is an increasing need for sensitive force control,
“backdrivability,” and transparency between forces and motions at the fingers and forces
and motions measured and controlled at the actuators. This motivates the definition of
new hand-level metrics to be reported on future hand datasheets.
We begin with a review of hand-level benchmarking and end with our perspective on
useful entries for robot hand datasheets of the future.
3.1. Common Benchmarks for the Hand, Wrist, and Fingers
The number of degrees of freedom (DOF) is the minimum number of parameters required
to describe a robot’s configuration (54).
Salisbury and Craig introduced mobility and
connectivity (10), where mobility is the number of DOFs in the hand, and connectivity is
the number of relative DOFs between the hand and manipulated object. The number of
DOFs of a robot hand, fingers, and wrist is always reported on datasheets.
Durability, which includes both impact and fatigue resistance, has received relatively
little attention in the literature, no doubt due to the cost of the tests. Negrello et al. tested
the ability of a robot hand to absorb impact energy using a pendulum apparatus (55). A
force-torque sensor at the base of the hand measures the impact force transmitted through
the hand, which is related to its ability to absorb impacts. Similarly, the hand of the DLR
hand-arm system was subjected to impact by a 500 g hammer to test robustness (56), but
specific details of the tests were not provided. For commercial robot hands, there are no
standard measures of durability, operational lifetime, or serviceability.
The ORCA, RUKA, and LEAP hands were designed as low-cost, robust robotic
hands (57–59) for real-world data collection. For each of these hands, continuous oper-
ation tests are used to benchmark repeatability and robustness. Repeatability measures
the accumulated positioning error during continuous operation and is assessed by com-
manding the hand to repeatedly grasp and ungrasp a compliant object (57, 59). Grasp
endurance is measured by testing how long a hand can statically hold a weight hanging
from the fingertips.
3.2. Hand Benchmarks
Hand benchmarks can be categorized as grasping and physical performance benchmarks.
Most grasping benchmarks compare how many grasps from a human grasp taxonomy a
robot hand can achieve (60).
Cutkosky’s grasp taxonomy (61), rooted in the work of
Schlesinger (62) and Napier (63), defines sixteen human hand grasp types, primarily cat-
egorized as power and precision grasps. Within each of those categories, grasps are fur-
ther organized by object geometry and hand configuration. Feix et al. (21) expanded on
Cutkosky’s grasp taxonomy by constructing the GRASP taxonomy (Figure 3(a)), a set of
33 human hand grasp types.
The anthropomorphic hand assessment protocol (AHAP) (64) uses eight of the most
common grasps found in activities of daily living and 25 objects from the YCB object
set (23). The hand’s ability to complete each grasp is scored and a composite grasping
ability score is computed. A similar grasping benchmark measures the volumetric grasping
capacity of the hand by testing the maximum and minimum diameter cylinders a hand can
stably grasp (65, 66) .
Grasp resilience (55, 56) and grasp pullout strength (65, 66) measure the hand’s ability
10
Shilati et al.


to maintain a grasp in the presence of external disturbances. Resilience tests involve rapid
disturbances simulating a collision with the environment, while grasp pullout tests involve
static or quasistatic loading.
Some hand mobility benchmarks are based on anthropomorphic features. Feix et al.
introduced a metric for evaluating the anthropomorphic motion capability of artificial hands,
called the anthropomorphism index (67). This metric uses action manifolds, which describe
all achievable fingertip poses for three-fingered grasps.
The anthropomorphism index is
computed from the overlap between a robot hand’s action manifold and that of a human
hand.
A well-known anthropomorphic benchmark of thumb mobility is the Kapandji test (53)
(Figure 3(b)), which originates in the occupational therapy literature.
In this test, the
thumb is scored in its ability to touch ten points on the fingers.
Other thumb mobility benchmarks test the thumb’s ability to work with fingers. The
interactivity of fingers benchmark (70) is a weighted measure of the overlap between the
workspace of each finger and the thumb. A related, more recent benchmark called KaRMA
was proposed by Peticco and Agrawal to evaluate a hand’s ability to translate and rotate
a spherical object held in a two-finger pinch grasp (68) (Figure 3(c)). From the KaRMA
benchmark, three scores are produced at each point in the hand’s workspace: KaRMA-T,
KaRMA-R, and KaRMA-S. These scores measure translation ability, rotation ability, and
sensitivity to grasp configuration, respectively. For both the KaRMA and interactivity of
fingers benchmarks, thumb and finger workspaces are discretized into voxels, simplifying
computation.
Typical measures of hand strength and speed are grasp strength and grasp cycle
time (66), tested, for example, using a split-cylinder artifact with embedded force sen-
sors (69) (Figure 3(d)). The grasp strength test evaluates the hand’s maximum grasping
strength with a wrap grasp and a pinch grasp (66, 71). Grasp cycle time measures the time
required for a hand to move from a stable grasp to the fully open configuration, then back
to a stable grasp.
Hand dynamic properties can be characterized in terms of the dynamics of objects
grasped by the hand. The spatial grasp compliance of a robot hand has been measured using
an instrumented object mounted to the spindle of a CNC mill (72). The grasp impedance
of human hands has been measured, including damping and inertial properties (73–75);
however, a similar characterization has not been done for robot hands.
3.3. Finger Benchmarks
Benchmarks of robot finger performance primarily focus on effort generation (force or
torque), motion generation, and finger dynamics. Effort and motion-generation capabil-
ities are based on maximum performance, accuracy, and precision, while finger dynamics
measure controller response and the finger’s dynamic properties.
Fingertip strength is a common measure of a finger’s force-generating capability. This
is typically evaluated by measuring the maximum force a fully extended finger can generate
in flexion at the fingertip (69). The fully extended configuration is often a finger’s weakest,
so the maximum strength measured in this configuration can be achieved at any other
configuration.
The fingertip force tracking test, as presented by NIST (76), measures force control and
sensing accuracy at the fingertip. Fingers are tested with the fingertip pressed against a
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
11


2
2-3
2-4
2-5
3
Side
Pad
Precision
Thumb 
Abducted
Thumb 
Adducted
Opposition:
VF:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
6-Axis Load Cell
Split Cylinder Artifact
Finger Strength
Test Method
Measurement Instrument
Touch Sensitivity
Finger Force Tracking
Force Calibration
Grasp Strength
Slip Resistance
Grasp Eﬃciency
Cycle Time
(c)
(d)
(b)
(a)
Figure 3: Existing hand-level benchmarks. Mobility benchmarks: (a) Twelve of the 33
grasps in the GRASP taxonomy, representing the precision grasp category (adapted from
(21) with permission). Robot hands are given a score based on how many of the grasps in
the GRASP taxonomy they can achieve. (b) A visualization of the 10 points on the hand
for the Kapandji score (53). A hand is given a score based on how many of these points
the thumb can touch. (c) The KaRMA benchmark evaluates a hand’s ability to translate
or rotate an object in a two-finger pinch grasp for various object locations in the hand’s
workspace (adapted from (68) with permission). Physical performance benchmarks:
(d) Performance measures proposed by NIST and the associated measurement instruments
(adapted from (69) with permission).
static load cell while a sinusoidal force profile is commanded at the fingertip, and external
and internal force sensors are read out. Two measures are computed from the collected data.
The first is the root-mean-square error (RMSE) between the commanded fingertip force and
the externally measured fingertip force. This is a measure of the force control accuracy.
The second measure is the RMSE between the externally and internally measured fingertip
force. This indicates fingertip force sensing accuracy, which strongly influences fingertip
12
Shilati et al.


force control.
With respect to motion generation, the finger’s maximum speed is commonly reported
in one of three ways: i) fingertip speed (60), ii) joint speed (77, 78), and iii) full range
frequency (79, 80). Fingertip speed simply measures the maximum speed the fingertip can
achieve during an opening or closing motion; joint speed measures the maximum angular
velocity achievable at the joints; and full range frequency, reported in Hz, is the number of
close-open cycles a finger can complete in one second.
Repeatability, a common measure in robotics, quantifies how consistently a finger can
achieve a commanded configuration. A procedure for measuring finger repeatability was
presented by NIST (69, 76), in which a finger starts in a specified configuration, moves along
a trajectory that requires all joints to move, and then returns to the initial configuration.
Repeatability can be reported in joint space or fingertip task space as the error between
the finger’s initial and final configurations.
Similarly, trajectory deviation is commonly used to quantify the error between a com-
manded trajectory and the true trajectory (81–83), most often measured externally via
computer vision.
Finger dynamics are characterized by measuring the finger’s response to control or
environmental inputs. To characterize a finger’s position control performance in free space,
joint position step (84) and frequency (11) responses have been used. Similarly, joint torque
control has been evaluated using both the step response (10) and the ramp response (84).
Rao et al. analyzed the control bounds of robot finger compliance control (85) using the
joint-space actuator impulse response. In data sheets for robotic hands, it is increasingly
common to list the backdriving torque of finger joints (80). Otherwise, finger response to
external excitations has received little attention.
3.4. Wrist Benchmarks
A well-designed wrist should enhance the mobility and stability of dexterous tasks while
providing sufficient strength and shock protection for tasks requiring large forces and im-
pacts (86). Wrist designs can be categorized by whether they use serial (86–88) or paral-
lel (60, 89, 90) mechanisms. If the hand is extrinsically actuated, load transmission through
the wrist must also be considered (91, 92).
Fan et al. developed a set of benchmarks for robot wrists that compare their capabilities
to those of the human wrist (91). The set includes mobility, stability, maximum speed and
torque, load capacity, and flexibility, each scored on a scale of 1 to 5. As noted in Section 3.1,
mobility benchmarks include the number of wrist DOFs and range of motion (92). Wrist
stability measures the wrist’s ability to maintain a configuration under external loading,
quantified as the deviation angle from the desired pose. Output capability measures the
wrist’s maximum torque and angular speed capabilities about each axis of rotation (60, 86,
89, 92). Load capacity characterizes the structural failure of the wrist as a function of the
load-to-weight ratio under bending loads (86, 89, 91, 92).
Finally, mechanical responsiveness to the environment is a desirable property for the
wrist, and it has been primarily quantified by active (86, 89, 90) and passive (91) backdriving
torque.
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
13


Hand
Finger
Wrist
Metric
Reference
Metric
Reference
Metric
Reference
Effort
Pullout strength
(65, 66)
Fingertip force
(69)
Maximum
torque
(60, 86, 89, 91,
92)
Grasp strength
(66, 71)
Fingertip force
control accuracy
(76)
Fingertip force
sensing accuracy
(76)
Flow
Mobility and
connectivity
(10)
Finger speed
(60, 77–80)
Maximum
speed
(60, 86, 89, 91,
92)
Anthropomorphism,
anthropomorphic
grasping ability
(21, 61, 64,
67)
Motion repeatability
(69, 76)
Range of
motion
(92)
Grasp volume
(65, 66)
Trajectory tracking
(81–83)
Kapandji score
(53)
Pinch grasp rotation
and translation ability
(68, 70)
Grasp cycle time
(66)
Dynamics
Grasp compliance
(72)
Step response, joint
position and torque
(10, 84)
Stability
(91)
Position frequency
response
(11)
Flexibility
(91)
Compliance control
bounds
(85)
Backdrive
torque
(86, 89–91)
Backdrive torque
(80)
Durability
Impact resilience
(55, 56)
Load capacity
(86, 89, 91, 92)
Repeatability
(57–59)
Grasp resilience
(55, 56)
Table 3: A summary of existing hand-level benchmark metrics grouped by effort, flow,
dynamics, and durability. Hand grasping metrics are grouped with the motion benchmarks.
3.5. Perspective
3.5.1. Gaps in benchmarking. Current hand-level benchmarks (Table 3) evaluate the hand’s
force production or motion capabilities individually, while dynamic performance is rarely
measured. This can be seen in robot hand datasheets, where metrics follow those used for
industrial robotic arms, which are generally designed for precise positioning in free space,
not sensitive interaction with objects and the environment.
3.5.2. Addressing the gaps. Dynamic interactions can be controlled using impedance con-
trol or admittance control. Impedance control closes motion feedback loops around a force-
controlled plant, while admittance control closes force feedback loops around a motion-
controlled plant (93).
14
Shilati et al.


Because stability and passivity impose fundamental limits (94), feedback control cannot
arbitrarily reshape plant dynamics.
Therefore, each approach is best suited to a differ-
ent regime. Impedance control is preferable when the desired impedance is low (close to
the native force-controlled plant), while admittance control is preferable when the desired
impedance is high (close to the native motion-controlled plant). Robot arms, which are
large and primarily used for motion control, have benefited most from admittance con-
trol. Robot fingers, however, are small and frequently used to regulate contact forces, for
example, when pressing a button, mating a connector, or seating a lid on a jar, making
impedance control a particularly promising approach.
Good impedance control requires mechanical transparency: forces from the actuators
should be faithfully conveyed to the environment, and forces imposed by the environment
should be faithfully conveyed back to the actuator, where they can be sensed and controlled.
This bidirectional fidelity is sometimes called bilateral force control (95). To understand
why transparency is difficult to achieve, consider the typical actuation chain: a motor drives
a reduction mechanism (gearbox, linkages), and a remotization element (cables, pulleys,
joints) carries force and motion to the fingertip (Figure 4(a)). Stages in this chain introduce
compliance, inertia, and nonlinear effects such as friction, backlash, cogging, and torque
ripple. These factors distort the transmission of forces and motions in both directions.
We propose three metrics to characterize mechanical transparency, and each can be
assessed in both the forward direction (actuator to fingertip) and the backward direction
(fingertip to actuator):
1. Breakaway force is the minimum force required to overcome static friction in the
transmission. In the forward direction, it is the smallest commanded actuator effort
that produces fingertip motion, which can be measured by commanding a ramp of
fingertip force while the finger is free to move. In the backward direction (backdrive
breakaway force), it is the smallest force applied to the fingertip that produces actu-
ator motion, which can be measured by applying a force ramp to the fingertip while
recording actuator positions. Because reduction mechanisms amplify friction, back-
drive breakaway force is typically much larger than forward breakaway force. Hands
with non-backdrivable transmissions should not be tested for backdrive breakaway
force, as doing so risks mechanical failure.
2. Force bandwidth characterizes how rapidly the system responds to a changing
force command or to a changing environmental displacement. Bandwidth is governed
primarily by the mass and compliance that lie in the transmission path between
actuators and the fingertip. In the forward direction, it may be measured by pressing
the fingertip against a force sensor and commanding a sinusoidal frequency sweep of
fingertip force; the bandwidth is the frequency at which the closed-loop response drops
to −3 dB. In the backward direction, bandwidth is related to the effective mechanical
impedance of the fingertip.
Ideally, the impedance is low so that a displacement
imposed by the environment does not cause an unduly large reaction force at the
finger. A non-backdrivable dynamometer (Figure 4(b)) can impose a velocity sine-
sweep excitation on the fingertip while measuring the interaction force; effective mass,
stiffness, and damping are then extracted by fitting a dynamic model to the impedance
frequency response (Figure 4(c)). Note that these impedance measurements provide a
linear approximation of the finger’s local dynamics; in practice, fingertip impedance
varies with configuration, and transmission nonlinearities produce amplitude- and
history-dependent behavior that this model cannot capture.
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
15


(a)
(b)
(c)
-20
0
20
40
100
101
-180
0
180
Z Fit
Z Measured
Z (dB)
Phase (°)
Frequency (Hz)
Keff
Meff
Beff
Actuators
Camera
Bowden Tubes
Robot
Finger
Linear Actuator
Force Sensor
Linear Encoder
Metric 
Categories
Durability
Eﬀort
Flow
Mechanical
Responsiveness
Task
Space
Joint
Space
Tendon
Space
Actuator
Space
J(θ)
ΠT
RM
Eﬀorts
Joint
Friction
Joint
Stiﬀness
Bone
Inertia
Tendon
Friction
Tendon
Stiﬀness
Flows
Mechanical
Responsiveness
Power Out
Power In
Fingertip
Force
Joint 
Torque
Tendon
Force
Motor
Torque
Fingertip
Velocity
Joint
Velocity
Tendon
Velocity
Motor
Velocity
J(θ)T
Π
RM
RM
J(θ)
ΠT

(·) dt

(·) dt
d
dt(·)
Figure 4: (a) The mapping of efforts and flows between actuators and fingers describes hand
transparency. A generalized physical model provides categories for benchmarking hand-level
physical performance based on efforts, flows, and mechanical responsiveness. The durability
category is added, as it is critical to real-world deployment of hands. (b) HAND finger
testbeds under development at Texas A&M University (left) and Northwestern University
(right).
The non-backdrivable fingertip dynamometer (right) with collocated force and
position sensing at the output is used to measure finger dynamic properties.
(c) The
mechanical impedance frequency response for the unpowered robot finger (96) as measured
by the fingertip dynamometer in (b). A dynamic model is fit to the data, and the effective
mass, stiffness, and damping of the finger is found to be Meff = 13.6 g, Keff = 389 N/m,
and Beff = 1.0 Ns/m. For reference, a human finger measured with the same device yielded
values of Meff = 7.0 g, Keff = 185 N/m, and Beff = 1.02 Ns/m.
16
Shilati et al.


3. Force accuracy quantifies how closely the transmitted force tracks a desired profile.
Accuracy is limited primarily by friction and the nonlinear factors described above,
though feedback control can partially compensate for these effects. In the forward
direction, accuracy may be measured using the NIST finger force tracking bench-
mark (69): the fingertip is pressed statically against a force sensor, a sinusoidal force
profile is commanded, and the RMSE between commanded and measured force is
reported.
Designing for transparency is a promising approach to enabling high-quality impedance
control for dynamic tasks.
Mechanical transparency also increases system durability by
reducing impact forces from unexpected contact with the environment and by reducing
internal wear through low-friction designs. However, many other hand-level performance
measures significantly impact system-level dexterity. Benchmarks for speed, strength, and
mobility that we expect to appear in future hand datasheets are described on the HAND
ERC benchmarking website.
4. COMPONENT-LEVEL BENCHMARKING
4.1. Actuation Benchmarks
Actuators generate motion and force in robot hands. As highlighted in Section 3.5.2, excel-
lent force regulation is a key enabler of dexterity. Therefore, the ideal dexterous actuator is
a perfect force source, enabling the exact forces commanded by a controller to be imposed
on the environment.
Electromagnetic (EM) motors are the most common type of robot hand actuator due to
their maturity, torque density, and reliability (97, 98). Other actuators used in robotic hands
include rigid pneumatic cylinders (11) and soft pneumatic chambers (99). Although less
mature, soft actuators, such as hydraulically amplified self-healing electrostatic actuators
(HASELs), liquid crystal elastomers (LCEs), and dielectric elastomer actuators (DEAs),
seek to replicate the performance of human muscle (100).
Significant work has been done to establish a framework for evaluating actuator perfor-
mance across different technologies. Early work by Hollerbach et al. surveyed many classes
of actuators, their mechanisms, and robotics applications, using metrics normalized by mass
such as specific power (power per unit mass) and specific force/torque (force or torque per
unit mass) (101). However, uneven treatment of which components are included in the mass
accounting (such as power electronics) can make accurate comparisons difficult. Given the
strict size constraints of humanoid hands, the same metrics normalized by volume are also
of interest (97). In the case of linear actuators, stroke length is a critical metric (as all con-
trol must lie within this limited range) and is sometimes presented as strain (97, 100–102).
Maximum force (or torque) is similarly important (103). However, these static metrics fail
to describe the system’s dynamic performance, which is of particular importance given the
nature of many dexterous tasks.
Typical metrics for dynamic actuator performance include step response characteristics,
such as rise time or overshoot, as well as control bandwidth (104). Actuator dynamometers
(Figure 5(a)) can be used to estimate control bandwidth and evaluate performance under
various loading conditions (104). Sakama et al. complemented the static normalized perfor-
mance measures with additional ones aimed at responsiveness, preferring power rate (torque
squared per inertia) and specific power rate (power rate per mass) over torque per inertia,
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
17


which changes based on the transmission (105). Force-velocity and speed-torque curves are
also important, particularly in artificial muscles which exhibit a strong relationship between
strain rate and force production (101).
Saliba et al. highlight linearity, smoothness, and hysteresis as qualitative metrics to
evaluate actuators for dexterity (97). Force nonlinearities due to stroke limits, hysteresis
in soft actuators, and backlash in a gearbox can significantly affect an actuator’s ability to
dynamically regulate its output force. For soft actuators, Rupert et al. discuss parasitic
and variable stiffness to capture torque loss and stiffness changes, respectively (103). Para-
sitic stiffness occurs when compliant structural elements push or pull against the actuator.
Fingers that use a spring for extension experience parasitic stiffness (106).
4.2. Mechanical Transmission Benchmarks
A mechanical transmission transfers efforts and flows between the joints and actuators of a
hand (Figure 4(a)). As the primary element between the environment and the actuators,
the characteristics of a transmission have a large influence on the transparency of the sys-
tem. In intrinsically-actuated robotic hands, the mechanical transmission elements may be
small linkages (12) or gearboxes. In extrinsically actuated robotic hands, the mechanical
transmission becomes a more significant and independently designable element, often cross-
ing multiple degrees of freedom to deliver power using elements such as tendons (107) or
fluids (108).
The most significant parameter related to transmissions is mechanical advantage, often
presented as the ratio of the input force (or torque) to the output force (or torque). In
the case of linkages, tendons, and soft transmissions, the mechanical advantage may be
configuration dependent.
Mechanical advantages fundamentally distort the relationship
between the forward (actuator to environment) and backward (environment to actuator)
transparencies.
In the context of robotic hands, large mechanical advantages are often
necessary due to limited space and mass budget for high-torque actuators. Friction, which
occurs in the transmission elements (109–111) and at the joints themselves (112), adds
significantly to this distortion. Frictional losses are sometimes described as a power transfer
efficiency ratio (113). In addition to friction, other nonlinearities, such as backlash in gears
or hysteresis in Bowden cables, adversely affect transparency (97). Other effects relevant
to robot hands include the coupling of DOFs that the transmission crosses (11, 114) and
hardware complexity (12).
Beyond static force transmission, the dynamic properties of a transmission strongly
influence hand control. High compliance from tendons (in comparison to metal gears and
linkages) can reduce position-control bandwidth (115), while large reflected inertia from
mechanical advantage raises the impedance displayed by the finger.
Given the prevalence of tendons in robotic hands due to their compact and lightweight
nature (10, 11, 56, 60, 116, 117), benchmarks have been developed to characterize their
behavior and performance. A tendon transmission consists of three primary elements: the
tendon itself, routing elements that guide the tendon between the actuator and driven
joint, and terminations that connect the tendon to the surrounding structure. Tendons are
typically metal cables (116) or synthetic fiber cords (56, 118, 119). Common benchmarks
for tendon materials evaluate maximum tensile strength (120–122), lifetime under various
loading conditions (120, 122, 123), stiffness, elongation over lifetime (creep), and strength
degradation.
Routing elements used to guide the tendon include pulleys supported by
18
Shilati et al.


Torque Sensor
Motor Under
 Test
Load 
(b)
(c)
(a)
Friction
Elements
Load Cells
Figure 5: Existing component-level benchmarking testbeds. (a) An actuator dynamometer
designed to evaluate the dynamic performance of electric motors (adapted from (104) with
permission). (b) Routing elements and load cells are used to characterize frictional losses
in a tendon transmission with sliding surfaces (adapted from (109) with permission). (c) A
multi-axis stage equipped with a force sensor is used to measure the response of a tactile
sensor (adapted from (127) with permission).
bearings or bushings, flexible Bowden cables, and rigid sliding surfaces (10, 60, 124). These
routing elements are often evaluated for tendon-path friction (109, 110, 125) and hysteresis
(Figure 5(b)). Tendon life-cycle tests are typically performed using the expected routing
elements, as friction adversely impacts the lifespan.
Termination methods vary by tendon material and include crimps, potting, knots, and
splicing (121, 126). Termination strength is commonly measured alongside tendon material
strength because the termination is frequently the limiting failure point (121, 122). Despite
their prevalence, tendons are a primary source of failure in many robotic hands, under-
scoring the need to understand how materials, routing elements, and terminations affect
performance and lifespan.
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
19


4.3. Soft, Durable Skin Benchmarks
The skin of a robot hand endures repeated contact and abrasion while shielding the compo-
nents underneath. In some cases, the skin covers a tactile sensing layer, and its thickness,
modulus, and surface texture determine how contact forces are distributed to the sensors. If
the skin is soft, it can yield large contact patches at low forces, stabilize grasps against dis-
turbances, and simplify the control of roll-slide contacts. A skin’s softness and its durability
tend to be inversely correlated, however, and as a result, many robot hand manufacturers
avoid using soft skins.
When robot hands are equipped with skins, they are often formed from rubber, elas-
tomers such as polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) (128, 129), platinum-cure silicones (129),
thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU) (130), and foams (131). These materials span a wide
range of mechanical behavior and are typically characterized by metrics such as Young’s
modulus, tensile strength, elongation at break, and Shore hardness (128). Skin compliance
increases the area of contact patches, but viscoelastic properties can cause surface adhesion
that produces stick-slip sliding that adversely impact dexterous manipulation (128, 129).
Skin friction enables in-hand manipulation and fine motor tasks.
The coefficient of
friction, the maximum tangential force normalized by the applied normal load, is most of-
ten measured by reciprocating sliding against a defined counter surface or estimated using
contact mechanics modeling (132, 133). The friction of elastomers can be tuned by alter-
ing material stiffness by modifying chemistry, applying coatings, or patterning the surface
topography. Hao et al. measured the effect of skin texture on friction, with the effect de-
pending on pattern and lubrication (134) (Figure 5(c)). Other work reports stiffness or
contact area without friction (129, 130, 135, 136).
Wear mechanisms for these elastomers are not well studied, and durability is reported
only qualitatively.
4.4. Sensing Benchmarks
A robot hand’s ability to interact with the world depends on two fundamental sensing capa-
bilities: sensing the configuration and joint loading conditions (i.e., kinesthetic sensing) and
sensing the physical contact it makes with the environment (i.e., tactile sensing). The field
has converged on several key dimensions for benchmarking performance of both: operating
range describes the span of values a sensor can measure; resolution captures the smallest
detectable change; accuracy quantifies deviation from ground truth; and sensing frequency
determines the rate of data acquisition.
Benchmarking of kinesthetic sensing has received relatively little attention in the litera-
ture. Joint positions, velocities, and accelerations are typically measured using optical (137),
capacitive (138), or magnetic (11, 60, 79, 139) encoders. For commercially available sensors,
most performance metrics can be directly sourced from manufacturers’ datasheets. When
custom implementations are evaluated, external cameras are used to track fiducials as the
ground truth for joint positions. Sensing joint loading typically relies on strain gauges (116),
series-elastic actuators (140, 141), or proprioceptive actuation (142), and each can be bench-
marked against known loads or external measurements. The most notable benchmarking
effort is from NIST (66), which evaluates fingertip force measurement accuracy by com-
puting the error between the internal force-sensing and the external force-sensor reading.
However, benchmarking individual sensor capabilities in isolation is insufficient; fitting sen-
sors within the confined geometry of a robot hand is a critical practical constraint. Metrics
20
Shilati et al.


that incorporate volumetric considerations, such as volume-specific resolution (resolution
per unit sensor volume), are needed to fully capture the tradeoff between kinesthetic sensor
performance and the space it consumes.
Benchmarking of tactile sensing has received considerably more attention and remains
an active area of development. Tactile sensors transduce mechanical interactions, such as
contact location and force distribution, into electrical signals through piezoresistive (127,
143–145) (Figure 5(c)), piezoelectric (146, 147), capacitive (148–150), magnetic (151–153),
triboelectric (154, 155), and optical (156–159) methods; in-depth reviews of each modality
can be found in (160–162).
In robotics, optical-based tactile sensors have received widespread attention due to their
reliance on well-developed vision technologies, adaptability to different robot hands, and
ease of integration with machine learning protocols (163). Cong et al. (164) proposed many
benchmarks for vision-based tactile sensors, including camera resolution, field of view, sen-
sor gel thickness, frame rate, calibration error, spatial resolution, sensitivity, repeatability,
spatial robustness, and lighting robustness. While intended for optical sensors, many of
these metrics extend to other modalities. Complementing this, Liu and Ward-Cherrier (165)
proposed a sensor-agnostic Tactile Image-Based Psychophysics-Inspired benchmark, which
evaluates spatial acuity across accuracy, stability, and generalizability. Notably, this frame-
work not only characterizes sensor performance but also guides hardware optimization.
Friedl and Roa (166) benchmarked nine tactile sensors on a variable-stiffness gripper,
finding that gripper stiffness and actuator angular velocity significantly affect sensor per-
formance.
This highlights that element-level metrics alone may not capture real-world
behavior under integration conditions.
Metric
Reference
Actuators
Volume
(11, 97, 117)
Density
(102)
Mass
(11, 97, 117)
Complexity
(97)
Specific power (power/mass)
(97, 101, 102, 105)
Specific force, torque (torque/mass)
(101, 103)
Stroke length, strain
(60, 97, 100–103)
Maximum force, torque
(11, 60, 103, 105, 117)
Parasitic and variable stiffness
(103)
Power rate (torque2/inertia)
(105)
Control bandwidth
(11, 101, 104)
Speed-torque behavior
(101)
Linearity, hysteresis, and force smoothness
(97)
Efficiency
(97, 102, 103)
continued on next page
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
21


Table 4 (continued)
Metric
Reference
Transmission
(general)
Hardware complexity
(12, 97)
Transmission ratio
(117)
Compliance and position-control bandwidth
(115)
Coupling
(11, 97, 114)
Hysteresis, backlash, and inertia
(97)
Transmission friction (efficiency)
(109–113)
Transmission
(tendons)
Tendon diameter
(57, 60)
Routing friction
(109, 110, 125)
Termination strength
(121, 122)
Material strength
(60, 120–122)
Hysteresis
(109)
Sensors
(tactile)
Thickness
(127, 144–146, 148–
151, 153, 156, 157, 159, 164)
Sensing field size
(146, 147, 149, 151, 153, 156, 159,
160, 163, 164)
Coverage
(158)
Temporal resolution
(143, 145–
147, 150, 153, 154, 156, 157, 159–
161, 163, 164, 166)
Spatial resolution
(144–147, 149, 151–153, 156–
161, 163–166)
Sensing range
(60, 143–152, 154, 160, 161, 166)
Force sensitivity
(57, 66, 143–
150, 154, 157, 160, 161, 163, 164)
Noise, accuracy
(11, 60, 144, 149, 152, 153, 157, 160,
161, 164, 165)
Detection limit
(127, 143–150, 152–
154, 156, 160, 161)
Stretchability
(148, 150)
Repeatability
(127, 143, 144, 146–
151, 160, 161, 164)
Calibration error
(66, 164)
Durability
(127, 144, 146, 153, 155, 159–161)
continued on next page
22
Shilati et al.


Table 4 (continued)
Metric
Reference
Sensors
(kinesthetic)
Volume
(117)
Temporal resolution
(77, 79, 139)
Spatial resolution
(77, 79, 137–139)
Measurement range and sensitivity
(137)
Accuracy
(66, 137–139)
Durability
(138)
Robustness
(139)
Skin
Stress-strain
(66, 128–130, 132, 133)
Relaxation percentage
(129, 130, 133)
Glass transition temperature, peak melting
temperature, and curing time
(133)
Coefficient of friction
(132, 134, 135)
Wear and wear rate
(132)
Table 4: Existing component-level metrics, grouped by subsystem.
4.5. Perspective
4.5.1. Gaps in benchmarking. Existing benchmarks (Table 4) have largely been developed
within individual component research communities, where well-established metrics are used
to characterize and compare different technologies. However, these metrics are designed to
assess component-level performance in isolation. When these components are integrated
into a robot hand for dexterous manipulation, additional requirements, constraints, and
tradeoffs emerge.
For actuators and mechanical transmission, a key gap is the lack of standardized met-
rics for evaluating their combined contribution to the mechanical transparency of a robot
hand. Transmission friction and efficiency metrics are not yet standardized, and bench-
marking transmissions based on tendons is complicated by configuration dependence and
the diversity of routing elements.
For tactile sensing, we currently lack standardized representations and metrics that
allow direct comparison of different technologies, including their suitability to scaling to
whole-hand coverage.
For soft skin, substantial attention has been devoted to characterizing material proper-
ties. However, less effort has been given to capturing the functional role of the skin in robot
hands. The skin can provide stabilizing compliance and enable large, conformal contact
areas, but there are no standardized metrics for reporting how contact area evolves during
interaction.
4.5.2. Addressing the gaps. Addressing these gaps requires standardized methods for eval-
uating hand components, particularly in the context of dexterity.
The HAND ERC is
currently developing a set of component-level benchmarks and equipment to evaluate them.
These benchmarks are evolving and are reported on the HAND benchmarking website. Fig-
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
23


(a)
(b)
(d)
Force Sensor
Pulleys
Antagonistic
Actuators
Tendon
Sample
Transmission 
Element
Force Sensors
Tendon Actuator
(c)
6-Axis Force 
Sensor
Ground Truth
Pattern
Tactile Sensor
Figure 6: Component-level testbeds built by members of the HAND ERC. (a) A tendon
transmission testbed at Northwestern University that is used to evaluate the transmission
efficiency of tendons and routing elements. (b) A tendon strength and lifetime testbed at
Texas A&M University with two antagonistic motors that pull a tendon over a sliding or
rolling surface. (c) A tactile sensing testbed at Carnegie Mellon University that is used to
verify tactile sensing accuracy and resolution. (d) A contact patch testbed at Texas A&M
University that measures contact patch evolution for human and robot fingertips using
frustrated total internal reflection (FTIR).
ure 6 depicts several component testbeds currently under development, including a tendon
strength and lifetime testbed, to better understand common tendon failure conditions (Fig-
ure 6(b)); a testbed to evaluate tactile sensor spatial resolution and sensitivity (Figure 6(c));
and a testbed to measure contact area evolution under different loading conditions of human
and robot skin (Figure 6(d)).
As described in Section 3.5.2, the hand’s mechanical transparency is critical to sensitive
controlled interactions with the environment. Three component-level performance measures
strongly influence hand transparency:
1. Actuator output inertia impacts force control bandwidth, with higher inertia re-
ducing the finger’s responsiveness to environmental interactions. A key design trade-
off arises here: decreasing actuator inertia comes at the cost of reduced strength, while
strength amplification via a transmission element increases inertia by the transmis-
24
Shilati et al.


sion ratio squared. Metrics such as specific torque and actuator torque per reflected
inertia can be used to characterize this tradeoff.
2. Transmission friction arises from sliding between surfaces along the hand’s trans-
mission path, which creates a discrepancy between input and output force. Because
friction is nonlinear, it is approximated by the force transmission efficiency, the ratio
of output force to input force. At small forces, motion through the transmission can
be lost to stiction; this effect is captured by the transmission breakaway force, the
minimum force applied at either end of the transmission that produces motion at the
other end (Figure 6(a)).
3. Transmission stiffness plays a major role in the overall actuation/transmission
impedance, and therefore it should be rigorously characterized.
Transmission ele-
ments that have low stiffness, either because they were chosen for that purpose (e.g.,
series-elastic actuators) or as a consequence of their other purposes (e.g., tendons),
decrease the apparent impedance of the finger to the environment but reduce the
force control bandwidth.
5. DISCUSSION
Perhaps the most pressing research problem in robot hand design and benchmarking is
understanding how low-level design decisions impact benchmark performance at the sys-
tem and application level. In this paper, we propose component- and hand-level bench-
marks which, based on our collective experience in robot manipulation, design, and control,
will help bridge the attribution gap between low-level design decisions and system-level
performance. The HAND ERC is currently developing test equipment to perform these
component- and hand-level benchmarks, as described above.
Still, the hard work of establishing system performance sensitivities to design decisions
remains.
In the absence of a comprehensive design theory for multifingered hands, an empirical
approach to establishing performance sensitivities, based on simulation and rapid prototyp-
ing, is summarized in Figure 7. We envision design feedback loops that build a database
of component-, hand-, and system-level benchmark performance and sensitivities using (1)
simulated benchmarks of a large number of robot hand designs and (2) a much smaller
number of experimental benchmarks of physical hand designs.
A major research challenge is developing simulations that can accurately account for
contact-rich interactions (167), including hard contacts (e.g., the transition from the lid’s
six degrees of freedom to a single degree of freedom during threading on a jar) and soft
contacts (e.g., during a sock-bundling task). It is also difficult to simulate the complex
behavior of soft skins and tendon transmissions (168). These issues are sometimes addressed
in simulation using domain randomization, but there is a critical need for efficient simulators
that can better model robot hands in real environments, including tendons, soft skin, tactile
sensors, and multiple simultaneous hard and soft contacts.
Rapid prototyping enables fast build and test cycles (169), but materials used for rapid
prototyping often introduce excessive friction, compliance, hysteresis, creep, poor strength
and durability, and other undesirable material properties that negatively impact mechanical
transparency. New manufacturing techniques are needed to accelerate the physical design-
build-test cycle of robot hands with high mechanical transparency.
Despite these challenges, the field of dexterous robotics is moving faster than ever, due
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
25


Hand
Hardware
Hand
Designer
Hand 
Performance
Database
Performance 
Sensitivity 
Analysis
Design Constraints,
Performance Targets
 
Hand 
Designs
Benchmarks
IRL
Benchmarks
in Sim
Real World
Deployment
Figure 7: Benchmarks should track progress and provide actionable feedback to designers.
in part to unprecedented private investment. Appropriate benchmarking, as reviewed in
this paper, will play a critical role in both measuring this progress and accelerating it.
DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
The authors are not aware of any affiliations, memberships, funding, or financial holdings
that might be perceived as affecting the objectivity of this review.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
AS led the overall manuscript preparation, including reference compilation, drafting, figure
generation, and editing of the full manuscript, working with KML. Section 1 was drafted
by KML. Section 2 was drafted by AR. Section 3 was drafted by SU with contributions and
editing from JEC, LB, AB, and ST. Section 4 was drafted by AS and PR with contributions
and editing from CM, LG, AAO, YY, AP, MGH, DG, RK, GCT, GKF, LB, AB, and ST.
Section 5 was drafted by AS.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under
Grant No. 2330040. We thank Cynthia Hipwell, Rob Ambrose, Brandon Krick, Toby Buck-
ley, Raphael Cherney, and Shobhit Aggarwal for their valuable contributions during the
preparation of this paper.
LITERATURE CITED
1. Ma RR, Dollar AM. 2011. On dexterity and dexterous manipulation. In 2011 15th Interna-
tional Conference on Advanced Robotics (ICAR), pp. 1–7. Tallinn, Estonia: IEEE
2. Han L, Trinkle J. 1998. Dextrous manipulation by rolling and finger gaiting. In IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), vol. 1, pp. 730–735. Leuven, Belgium:
IEEE
3. Weng H, Chen Y, Lynch KM. 2026. Compliant in-hand rolling manipulation using tactile
sensing. arXiv:2603.04301v1 [cs.RO]
26
Shilati et al.


4. Shi J, Weng H, Lynch KM. 2020. In-hand sliding regrasp with spring-sliding compliance and
external constraints. IEEE Access 8:88729–88744
5. Dafle NC, Rodriguez A, Paolini R, Tang B, Srinivasa SS, et al. 2014. Extrinsic dexterity: In-
hand manipulation with external forces. In 2014 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pp. 1578–1585. Hong Kong, China: IEEE
6. Mahler J, Matl M, Satish V, Danielczuk M, DeRose B, et al. 2019. Learning ambidextrous
robot grasping policies. Science Robotics 4(26):eaau4984
7. Chi C, Xu Z, Pan C, Cousineau E, Burchfiel B, et al. 2024. Universal manipulation interface:
in-the-wild robot teaching without in-the-wild robots. In Robotics: Science and Systems XX.
Delft, Netherlands: Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation
8. Huinink LHB, Bouwsema H, Plettenburg DH, Van Der Sluis CK, Bongers RM. 2016. Learn-
ing to use a body-powered prosthesis: changes in functionality and kinematics. Journal of
NeuroEngineering and Rehabilitation 13(1):90
9. Lynch KM, Mason MT. 1996. Stable pushing: Mechanics, controllability, and planning. The
International Journal of Robotics Research 15(6):533–556
10. Salisbury JK, Craig JJ. 1982. Articulated hands: Force control and kinematic issues. The
International Journal of Robotics Research 1(1):4–17
11. Jacobsen S, Iversen E, Knutti D, Johnson R, Biggers K. 1986. Design of the Utah/M.I.T.
Dextrous Hand. In Proceedings. 1986 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Au-
tomation, pp. 1520–1532. San Francisco, CA, USA: IEEE
12. Kim U, Jung D, Jeong H, Park J, Jung HM, et al. 2021. Integrated linkage-driven dexterous
anthropomorphic robotic hand. Nature Communications 12(1):7177
13. Liu H, Yang D, Fan S, Cai H. 2016. On the development of intrinsically-actuated, multisensory
dexterous robotic hands. ROBOMECH Journal 3(1)
14. Goldenberg J, Lowengart O, Oreg S, Bar-Eli M. 2010. How do revolutions emerge? Interna-
tional Studies of Management & Organization 40(2):30–51
15. Elliott JM, Connolly KJ. 1984. A classification of manipulative hand movements. Develop-
mental Medicine & Child Neurology 26(3):283–296
16. Exner CE. 1992. In-hand manipulation skills. In Development of hand skills in the child,
ed. J Case-Smith, C Pehoski, pp. 35–45. Rockville, MD: American Occupational Therapy
Association
17. Bullock IM, Ma RR, Dollar AM. 2013. A hand-centric classification of human and robot
dexterous manipulation. IEEE Transactions on Haptics 6(2):129–144
18. Krebs F, Asfour T. 2022. A bimanual manipulation taxonomy. IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters 7(4):11031–11038
19. Blanco-Mulero D, Dong Y, Borras J, Pokorny FT, Torras C. 2024. T-DOM: a taxonomy for
robotic anipulation of deformable objects. arXiv:2412.20998v1 [cs.RO]
20. Zhou J, Chen Y, Li DCF, Gao Y, Li Y, et al. 2020. 50 Benchmarks for Anthropomorphic Hand
Function-based Dexterity Classification and Kinematics-based Hand Design. In IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pp. 9159–9165. IEEE
21. Feix T, Romero J, Schmiedmayer HB, Dollar AM, Kragic D. 2016. The GRASP taxonomy of
human grasp types. IEEE Transactions on Human-Machine Systems 46(1):66–77
22. Coulson R, Li C, Majidi C, Pollard NS. 2021. The Elliott and Connolly Benchmark: A test
for evaluating the in-hand dexterity of robot hands. In 2020 IEEE-RAS 20th International
Conference on Humanoid Robots (Humanoids), pp. 238–245. Munich, Germany: IEEE
23. Calli B, Walsman A, Singh A, Srinivasa S, Abbeel P, Dollar AM. 2015. Benchmarking in
manipulation research: Using the Yale-CMU-Berkeley object and model set. IEEE Robot.
Autom. Mag. 22(3):36–52
24. Liconti D, Zhou Y, Toshimitsu Y, Hinchet R, Katzschmann RK. 2026. A benchmark of dex-
terity for anthropomorphic robotic hands. arXiv:2604.09294v1 [cs.RO]
25. Jebsen RH, Taylor N, Trieschmann R, Trotter M, Howard L. 1969. An objective and standard-
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
27


ized test of hand function. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 50(6):311–319
26. Light CM, Chappell PH, Burger KN. 2002. Establishing a standardized clinical assessment tool
of pathologic and prosthetic hand function: normative data, reliability, and validity. Archives
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 83(6):776–783
27. Barreca S, Stratford P, Masters M, Lambert C, Griffiths JA. 2004. Development of the Chedoke
Arm and Hand Activity Inventory: theoretical constructs, item generation, and selection.
Topics in Stroke Rehabilitation 11(4):31–42
28. Barreca SR, Stratford PW, Masters L, Lambert C, Griffiths J, McInroy C. 2005. Test-retest
reliability, validity, and sensitivity of the Chedoke Arm and Hand Activity Inventory: a new
measure of upper-limb function for survivors of stroke. Archives of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation 86(8):1616–1622
29. Mathiowetz V, Volland G, Kashman N, Weber K. 1985. Adult norms for the box and block
test of manual dexterity. The American Journal of Occupational Therapy 39(6):386–391
30. Kimble K, Van Wyk K, Falco J, Messina E, Sun Y, et al. 2020. Benchmarking protocols
for evaluating small parts robotic assembly systems. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters
5(2):883–889
31. Clark AB, Cramphorn-Neal L, Rachowiecki M, Gregg-Smith A. 2023. Household clothing set
and benchmarks for characterising end-effector cloth manipulation. In 2023 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 9211–9217. London, United King-
don: IEEE
32. James S, Ma Z, Rovick Arrojo D, Davison AJ. 2020. RLBench: the robot learning benchmark
& learning environment. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 5(2):573–580
33. Tao S, Xiang F, Shukla A, Qin Y, Hinrichsen X, et al. 2025. ManiSkill3: GPU parallelized
robotics simulation and rendering for generalizable embodied AI. arXiv:2410.00425v2 [cs.RO]
34. Cruciani S, Sundaralingam B, Hang K, Kumar V, Hermans T, Kragic D. 2020. Benchmarking
in-hand manipulation. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 5(2):588–595
35. Lin X, Wang Y, Olkin J, Held D. 2021. SoftGym: benchmarking deep reinforcement learning
for deformable object manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Robot Learning,
vol. 155 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 432–448. PMLR
36. Chen S, Xu Y, Yu C, Li L, Ma X, et al. 2023. DaxBench: benchmarking deformable object ma-
nipulation with differentiable physics. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning
Representations, (ICLR). Kigali, Rwanda: OpenReview.net
37. Mu T, Ling Z, Xiang F, Yang D, Li X, et al. 2021. ManiSkill: generalizable manipulation skill
benchmark with large-scale demonstrations. arXiv:2107.14483v5 [cs.LG]
38. McLean R, Chatzaroulas E, McCutcheon L, R¨oder F, Yu T, et al. 2025. Meta-World+: an
improved, standardized, RL benchmark. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural In-
formation Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track. San Diego, CA, USA: Curran
Associates, Inc.
39. Mu Y, Chen T, Chen Z, Peng S, Lan Z, et al. 2025. RoboTwin: dual-arm robot benchmark
with generative digital twins. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Conference (CVPR), pp. 27649–27660. Nashville, TN, USA: IEEE/CVF
40. Chen T, Chen Z, Chen B, Cai Z, Liu Y, et al. 2025. RoboTwin 2.0: A scalable data generator
and benchmark with strong domain randomization for robust bimanual robotic manipulation.
arXiv:2506.18088v2 [cs.RO]
41. Bao C, Xu H, Qin Y, Wang X. 2023. DexArt: benchmarking generalizable dexterous manipula-
tion with articulated objects. In Procceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Conferece (CVPR), pp. 21190–21200. Vancouver, Canada: IEEE/CVF
42. Yao Y, Xu Z, Zhang T, Liu Z, Li S, et al. 2026. DexVerse: A modular benchmark for multi-task,
multi-embodiment dexterous manipulation. arXiv:2607.08751v1 [cs.RO]
43. Wang Z, Liu C, Xiang Y, Zhang R, Hao Q, et al. 2026. The Great March 100: 100 detail-
oriented tasks for evaluating embodied AI agents. arXiv:2601.11421v1 [cs.RO]
28
Shilati et al.


44. Chen Y, Yang Y, Wu T, Wang S, Feng X, et al. 2022. Towards human-level bimanual dexterous
manipulation with reinforcement learning. arXiv:2206.08686v2 [cs.RO]
45. Wu K, Hou C, Liu J, Che Z, Ju X, et al. 2025. RoboMIND: benchmark on multi-embodiment
intelligence normative data for robot manipulation. In Robotics: Science and Systems XXI.
Los Angeles, CA, USA: Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation
46. Collaboration OXE, O’Neill A, Rehman A, Gupta A, Maddukuri A, et al. 2023. Open X-
Embodiment: robotic learning datasets and RT-X models. arXiv:2310.08864v9 [cs.RO]
47. Bu Q, Cai J, Chen L, Cui X, Ding Y, et al. 2025. AgiBot world colosseo: a large-scale ma-
nipulation platform for scalable and intelligent embodied systems. In IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS). Hangzhou, China: IEEE/RSJ
48. Chen Y, Kimble K, Adelson EH, Asfour T, Chanrungmaneekul P, et al. 2026. ManipulationNet:
an infrastructure for benchmarking real-world robot manipulation with physical skill challenges
and embodied multimodal reasoning. arXiv:2603.04363v1 [cs.RO]
49. Rajeswaran A, Kumar V, Gupta A, Vezzani G, Schulman J, et al. 2018. Learning Complex
Dexterous Manipulation with Deep Reinforcement Learning and Demonstrations. In Robotics:
Science and Systems XIV. Pittsburgh, PA, USA: Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation
50. RLWRLD Inc. 2026. DexBench: An industry-grounded benchmark for dexterous robot ma-
nipulation. https://dexbench.org
51. HAND ERC. 2024. Dexterity Nexus (DexNex) v0, June 2024. https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=OH_BT9byn6I
52. Buckley T, Colgate JE. 2024. Dexterous manipulation with a bi-manual anthropomorphic tele-
operation robot. In 3rd Workshop Toward Robot Avatars, IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS). Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates: IEEE/RSJ
53. Kapandji A. 1986. Cotation clinique de l’opposition et de la contre-opposition du pouce. An-
nales de Chirurgie de la Main 5(1):67–73
54. Lynch KM, Park FC. 2017. Modern Robotics: Mechanics, Planning, and Control. Cambridge
University Press
55. Negrello F, Friedl W, Grioli G, Garabini M, Brock O, et al. 2020. Benchmarking hand and
grasp resilience to dynamic loads. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 5(2):1780–1787
56. Grebenstein M, Albu-Schaffer A, Bahls T, Chalon M, Eiberger O, et al. 2011. The DLR hand
arm system. In 2011 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
pp. 3175–3182. Shanghai, China: IEEE
57. Christoph CC, Eberlein M, Katsimalis F, Roberti A, Sympetheros A, et al. 2025. ORCA: an
open-source, reliable, cost-effective, anthropomorphic robotic hand for uninterrupted dexter-
ous task learning. In IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems
(IROS), pp. 8503–8510. Hangzhou, China: IEEE
58. Zorin A, Guzey I, Yan B, Iyer A, Kondrich L, et al. 2025. RUKA: rethinking the design of
humanoid hands with learning. arXiv:2504.13165v1 [cs.RO]
59. Shaw K, Agarwal A, Pathak D. 2023. LEAP Hand: low-cost, efficient, and anthropomorphic
hand for robot learning. In Robotics: Science and Systems XIX. Daegu, Republic of Korea:
Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation
60. Bridgwater LB, Ihrke CA, Diftler MA, Abdallah ME, Radford NA, et al. 2012. The Robonaut
2 Hand - designed to do work with tools. In 2012 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, pp. 3425–3430. St. Paul, MN, USA: IEEE
61. Cutkosky MR. 1989. On grasp choice, grasp models, and the design of hands for manufacturing
tasks. IEEE Trans. Robotics Autom. 5(3):269–279
62. Schlesinger G. 1919. Der mechanische Aufbau der k¨unstlichen Glieder. In Ersatzglieder und
Arbeitshilfen, ed. M Borchardt, pp. 321–661. Berlin, Germany: Springer
63. Napier JR. 1956. The prehensile movements of the human hand. The Journal of bone and
joint surgery. British volume 38-B(4):902–913
64. Llop-Harillo I, P´erez-Gonz´alez A, Starke J, Asfour T. 2019. The anthropomorphic hand as-
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
29


sessment protocol (AHAP). Robotics and Autonomous Systems 121:103259
65. Kragten GA, Meijneke C, Herder JL. 2010. A proposal for benchmark tests for underactuated
or compliant hands. Mechanical Sciences 1(1):13–18
66. Falco J, Van Wyk K, Liu S, Carpin S. 2015. Grasping the performance: Facilitating replicable
performance measures via benchmarking and standardized methodologies. IEEE Robotics &
Automation Magazine 22(4):125–136
67. Feix T, Romero J, Ek CH, Schmiedmayer HB, Kragic D. 2013. A metric for comparing the an-
thropomorphic motion capability of artificial hands. IEEE Transactions on Robotics 29(1):82–
93
68. Peticco M, Agrawal P. 2026. KaRMA: A kinematic metric for fine manipulation ability in
robotic hands. arxiv:2605.15548v1 [cs.RO]
69. Falco J, Hemphill D, Kimble K, Messina E, Norton A, et al. 2020. Benchmarking protocols for
evaluating grasp strength, grasp cycle time, finger strength, and finger repeatability of robot
end-effectors. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 5(2):644–651
70. You WS, Lee YH, Kang G, Oh HS, Seo JK, Choi HR. 2019. Kinematic design optimization
for anthropomorphic robot hand based on interactivity of fingers. Intelligent Service Robotics
12(2):197–208
71. Ma R, Dollar A. 2017. Yale OpenHand Project: Optimizing open-source hand designs for ease
of fabrication and adoption. IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine 24(1):32–40
72. Odhner LU, Jentoft LP, Claffee MR, Corson N, Tenzer Y, et al. 2014. A compliant, un-
deractuated hand for robust manipulation. The International Journal of Robotics Research
33(5):736–752
73. Burstr¨om L. 1990. Measurements of the impedance of the hand and arm. International
Archives of Occupational and Environmental Health 62(6):431–439
74. Hasser C, Cutkosky M. 2002. System identification of the human hand grasping a haptic knob.
In Proceedings 10th Symposium on Haptic Interfaces for Virtual Environment and Teleoper-
ator Systems. HAPTICS 2002, pp. 171–180. Orlando, FL, USA: IEEE Comput. Soc
75. Hoppner H, Lakatos D, Urbanek H, Castellini C, Van Der Smagt P. 2011. The Grasp Perturba-
tor: Calibrating human grasp stiffness during a graded force task. In 2011 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pp. 3312–3316. Shanghai, China: IEEE
76. Falco JA, Van Wyk K, Messina ER. 2018. Performance metrics and test methods for robotic
hands (draft). Tech. Rep. NIST Special Publication (SP) 1227 (Draft), National Institute of
Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD
77. Shadow Robot Company. 2024. DEX-EE series - Robust 3-Fingered Robot Hand. Shadow
Robot Company, London, UK. Technical Data Sheet. Available at: https://shadowrobot.
com/dex-ee_series/
78. Zhou X, Fu H, Shentu B, Wang W, Cai S, Bao G. 2024. Design and control of a tendon-driven
robotic finger based on grasping task analysis. Biomimetics 9(6):370
79. 2024. Shadow Dexterous Hand - Technical Specifications. Shadow Robot Company, Lon-
don,
UK.
Updated
Technical
Specification.
Available
at:
https://shadowrobot.com/
dexterous-hand-series/
80. Robotera. 2024. XHAND1 Fully Direct-Drive Five-Fingered Dexterous Hand - Technical Spec-
ifications. Beijing Robotera Technology Co., Ltd. Available at: https://www.robotera.com/
en/goods1/4.html
81. Shirafuji S, Ikemoto S, Hosoda K. 2014. Development of a tendon-driven robotic finger for an
anthropomorphic robotic hand. The International Journal of Robotics Research 33(5):677–693
82. Mnyusiwalla H, Vulliez P, Gazeau JP, Zeghloul S. 2016. A new dexterous hand based on bio-
inspired finger design for inside-hand manipulation. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man,
and Cybernetics: Systems 46(6):809–817
83. Joshua A S, Rake NJ. 2021. A four-tendon robotic finger with tendon transmission inspired
by the human extensor mechanism. Bioinspiration & Biomimetics 16(4):046004
30
Shilati et al.


84. Abdallah ME, Platt R, Wampler CW, Hargrave B. 2010. Applied joint-space torque and stiff-
ness control of tendon-driven fingers. In 2010 10th IEEE-RAS International Conference on
Humanoid Robots, pp. 74–79. Nashville, TN, USA: IEEE
85. Rao P, Thomas GC, Sentis L, Deshpande AD. 2017. Analyzing achievable stiffness control
bounds of robotic hands with coupled finger joints. In 2017 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 3447–3452. Singapore, Singapore: IEEE
86. Peticco M, Ulloa G, Marangola J, Dashora N, Agrawal P. 2025. Dexwrist: A robotic wrist for
constrained and dynamic manipulation. arXiv:2507.01008v3 [cs.RO]
87. Townsend WT, Salisbury JK. 1993. Mechanical Design for Whole-Arm Manipulation. In
Robots and Biological Systems: Towards a New Bionics?, ed. P Dario, G Sandini, P Ae-
bischer, pp. 153–164, pp. 153–164. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg
88. Bajaj NM, Dollar AM. 2018. Design and preliminary evaluation of a 3-DOF powered pros-
thetic wrist device. In 2018 7th IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Robotics and
Biomechatronics (BioRob), pp. 119–125. IEEE
89. Friedl W, H¨oppner H, Petit F, Hirzinger G. 2011. Wrist and forearm rotation of the DLR hand
arm system: mechanical design, shape analysis and experimental validation. In IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pp. 1836–1842. San Fran-
cisco, CA, USA: IEEE/RSJ
90. Kim YJ, Kim JI, Jang W. 2018. Quaternion joint: dexterous 3-dof joint representing quater-
nion motion for high-speed safe interaction. In IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intel-
ligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pp. 935–942. Madrid, Spain: IEEE
91. Fan H, Wei G, Ren L. 2022. Prosthetic and robotic wrists comparing with the intelligently
evolved human wrist: a review. Robotica 40(11):4169–4191
92. Bajaj NM, Spiers AJ, Dollar AM. 2019. State of the art in artificial wrists:
a review of
prosthetic and robotic wrist design. IEEE Transactions on Robotics 35(1):261–277
93. Hogan N. 1984. Impedance control: an approach to manipulation. In 1984 American Control
Conference, pp. 304–313. San Diego, CA, USA: IEEE
94. Colgate E, Hogan N. 1989. An analysis of contact instability in terms of passive physical equiv-
alents. In Proceedings, 1989 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
pp. 404–409. Scottsdale, AZ, USA: IEEE Comput. Soc. Press
95. Lawrence DA. 1992. Stability and transparency in bilateral teleoperation. In Proceedings of the
31st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, pp. 2649–2655. IEEE
96. Batteas L, Sterling-Angus O, Yang Y, Dills P, Lynch K, Colgate JE. 2025. Design of a Multi-
fingered Robot Hand and User Interface for Force-Transparent Teleoperation. In International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) 2025 Workshop ”Handy Moves: Dexterity
in Multi-Fingered Hands”. Openreview.net
97. Saliba MA, Ellul C. 2013. Dexterous actuation. Mechanism and Machine Theory 70:45–61
98. Lin YY, Raj R, Juang JY. 2025. A comprehensive review of dexterous robotic hands: design,
implementation, and evaluation. Bioinspiration & Biomimetics 20(4):041003
99. Puhlmann S, Harris J, Brock O. 2022. RBO hand 3: A platform for soft dexterous manipula-
tion. IEEE Transactions on Robotics 38(6):3434–3449
100. Mirvakili SM, Hunter IW. 2018. Artificial muscles: mechanisms, applications, and challenges.
Advanced Materials 30(6):1704407
101. Hollerbach JM, Hunter IW, Ballantyne J. 1992. A comparative analysis of actuator technolo-
gies for robotics, chap. 2. Cambridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, 299–342
102. Greco C, Kotak P, Pagnotta L, Lamuta C. 2022. The evolution of mechanical actuation: from
conventional actuators to artificial muscles. International Materials Reviews 67(6):575–619
103. Rupert L, Saunders BO, Killpack MD. 2021. Performance metrics for fluidic soft robot rota-
tional actuators. Frontiers in Robotics and AI 8:632835
104. Torres Rodr´ıguez IJ, Mars`a Fargas J, Candelo Zuluaga C, P´erez D´ıaz CA, Martin Hern´andez
LD, et al. 2026. Toward reproducible actuator characterization: A comprehensive framework
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
31


for robotics applications. Actuators 15(6):301
105. Sakama S, Tanaka Y, Kamimura A. 2022. Characteristics of hydraulic and electric servo mo-
tors. Actuators 11(1):11
106. You WS, Lee YH, Oh HS, Kang G, Choi HR. 2019. Design of a 3D-printable, robust anthropo-
morphic robot hand including intermetacarpal joints. Intelligent Service Robotics 12(1):1–16
107. Nazma E, Mohd S. 2012. Tendon driven robotic hands: a review. International Journal of
Mechanical Engineering and Robotics Research 1(3):350–357
108. Schwarm E, Gravesmill KM, Whitney JP. 2019. A floating-piston hydrostatic linear actuator
and remote-direct-drive 2-dof gripper. In International Conference on Robotics and Automa-
tion (ICRA), pp. 7562–7568. Montreal, Quebec, Canada: IEEE
109. Palli G, Borghesan G, Melchiorri C. 2009. Tendon-based transmission systems for robotic
devices: models and control algorithms. In International Conference on Robotics and Au-
tomation (ICRA), pp. 4063–4068. Kobe, Japan: IEEE
110. Reinecke J, Chalon M, Friedl W, Grebenstein M. 2014. Guiding effects and friction modeling
for tendon driven systems. In IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), pp. 6726–6732. IEEE, Hong Kong, China
111. Gogoussis A, Donath M. 1988. Coulomb friction effects on the dynamics of bearings and
transmissions in precision robot mechanisms. In IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pp. 1440–1446. Leuven, Belgium: IEEE
112. Borghesan G, Palli G, Melchiorri C. 2010. Design of tendon-driven robotic fingers: Modeling
and control issues. In IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
pp. 793–798. Anchorage, AK, USA: IEEE
113. Seok S, Wang A, Chuah MY, Hyun DJ, Lee J, et al. 2014. Design principles for energy-efficient
legged locomotion and implementation on the MIT cheetah robot. IEEE/ASME Transactions
on Mechatronics 20(3):1117–1129
114. Takei R, Frishman S, Whitney JP. 2025. Design and evaluation of high-performance motion-
decoupled cable transmission modules. In IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pp. 5089–5095. Atlanta, GA, USA: IEEE
115. Kaneko M, Yamashita T, Tanie K. 1991. Basic considerations on transmission characteristics
for tendon drive robots. In IEEE International Conference on Advanced Robotics (ICAR), pp.
827–832 vol.1. Pisa, Italy: IEEE
116. Lovchik C, Diftler M. 1999. The Robonaut hand: a dexterous robot hand for space. In IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), vol. 2, pp. 907–912. Detroit,
MI, USA
117. Liu H, Wu K, Meusel P, Seitz N, Hirzinger G, et al. 2008. Multisensory five-finger dexterous
hand: The DLR/HIT Hand II. In IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots
and Systems (IROS), pp. 3692–3697. Nice, France: IEEE
118. Tasi BJ, Pelyva DL, Holl´o D, Nguyen Z, Moln´ar BG, et al. 2025. An anatomically accurate
biomimetic robotic hand with textile connective tissues. In IEEE International Conference On
Rehabilitation Robotics (ICORR), pp. 1461–1466. Chicago, IL, USA: IEEE
119. Liu R, Zheng H, Hlibok´y M, Endo H, Zhang S, et al. 2024. Anatomically-inspired robotic finger
with SMA tendon actuation for enhanced biomimetic functionality. Biomimetics 9(3):151
120. Asane D, Schmitz A, Wang Y, Sugano S. 2020. A study on the elongation behaviour of synthetic
fibre ropes under cyclic loading. In IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots
and Systems (IROS), pp. 6326–6331. IEEE/RSJ
121. Horigome A, Endo G, Takata A, Wakabayashi Y. 2018. Development of new terminal fixation
method for synthetic fiber ropes. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 3(4):4321–4328
122. Mazumdar A, Spencer SJ, Hobart C, Dabling J, Blada T, et al. 2017. Synthetic fiber cap-
stan drives for highly efficient, torque controlled, robotic applications. IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters 2(2):554–561
123. Horigome A, Endo G. 2018. Investigation of repetitive bending durability of synthetic fiber
32
Shilati et al.


ropes. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 3(3):1779–1786
124. Jacobsen S, Wood J, Knutti D, Biggers K. 1984. The UTAH/M.I.T. Dextrous Hand: Work in
progress. The International Journal of Robotics Research 3(4):21–50
125. Palli G, Borghesan G, Melchiorri C. 2012. Modeling, identification, and control of tendon-based
actuation systems. IEEE Transactions on Robotics 28(2):277–290
126. Grebenstein M, Chalon M, Hirzinger G, Siegwart R. 2010. Antagonistically driven finger design
for the anthropomorphic DLR Hand Arm System. In 10th IEEE-RAS International Confer-
ence on Humanoid Robots, pp. 609–616. Nashville, TN, USA: IEEE
127. B¨uscher G, Meier M, Walck G, Haschke R, Ritter HJ. 2015. Augmenting curved robot sur-
faces with soft tactile skin. In IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems (IROS), pp. 1514–1519. Hamburg, Germany: IEEE/RSJ
128. Shintake J, Cacucciolo V, Floreano D, Shea H. 2018. Soft robotic grippers. Advanced Materials
30(29):1707035
129. Porte E, Eristoff S, Agrawala A, Kramer-Bottiglio R. 2024. Characterization of temperature
and humidity dependence in soft elastomer behavior. Soft Robotics 11(1):118–130
130. Georgopoulou A, et al. 2021. Fabrication of a soft robotic gripper with integrated strain sensing
elements using multi-material additive manufacturing. Frontiers in Robotics and AI 8:615991
131. Bauer D, Bauer C, King JP, Moro D, Chang KH, et al. 2020. Design and control of foam hands
for dexterous manipulation. International Journal of Humanoid Robotics 17(1):1950033
132. Herr M, Borras FX, Spaltmann D, Kr¨oll M, Pirker F, Cihak-Bayr U. 2023. How to create
trusted tribological characterization data of soft polymers as input for fem simulations? Ma-
terials 16(1):131
133. Roels E, Costa Cornell`a A, Brancart J. 2026. A standardized framework for elastomer char-
acterization in soft robotics. Advanced Intelligent Systems 8(3):e202500699
134. Hao T, Xiao H, Wang J, Wang X, Liu Q. 2024. Friction enhancement through fingerprint-like
soft surface textures in soft robotic grippers for grasping abilities. Tribology Letters 72:47
135. Berthold R, Burgner-Kahrs J, Wangenheim M, Kahms S. 2023. Investigating frictional contact
behavior for soft material robot simulations. Meccanica 58(5):2165–2176
136. Romero B, Veiga F, Adelson E. 2020. Soft, round, high resolution tactile fingertip sensors for
dexterous robotic manipulation. In IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automa-
tion (ICRA), pp. 4796–4802. IEEE
137. Yu H, Chen X, Liu C, Cai G, Wang W. 2021. A survey on the grating based optical position
encoder. Optics & Laser Technology 143:107352
138. Pu X, Guo H, Tang Q, Chen J, Feng L, et al. 2018. Rotation sensing and gesture control of a
robot joint via triboelectric quantization sensor. Nano Energy 54:453–460
139. Paredes F, Herrojo C, Mart´ın F. 2021. Position sensors for industrial applications based on
electromagnetic encoders. Sensors 21(8):2738
140. Pratt GA, Williamson MM. 1995. Series elastic actuators. In IEEE/RSJ International Con-
ference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), vol. 1, pp. 399–406. Pittsburgh, PA, USA:
IEEE/RSJ
141. Koochakzadeh E, Kargar A, Sattari P, Ravanshid D, Nasiri R. 2024. Seven benefits of us-
ing series elastic actuators in the design of an affordable, simple controlled, and functional
prosthetic hand. In IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems
(IROS), pp. 2444–2449. Yokohama, Japan: IEEE/RSJ
142. Wensing PM, Wang A, Seok S, Otten D, Lang J, Kim S. 2017. Proprioceptive actuator design
in the MIT cheetah: Impact mitigation and high-bandwidth physical interaction for dynamic
legged robots. IEEE Transactions on Robotics 33(3):509–522
143. Kim SW, Lee JH, Ko HJ, Lee S, Bae GY, et al. 2024. Mechanically robust and linearly sensitive
soft piezoresistive pressure sensor for a wearable human–robot interaction system. ACS Nano
18(4):3151–3160
144. Park K, Yuk H, Yang M, Cho J, Lee H, Kim J. 2022. A biomimetic elastomeric robot
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
33


skin using electrical impedance and acoustic tomography for tactile sensing. Science Robotics
7(67):eabm7187
145. Xu S, Xu Z, Li D, Cui T, Li X, et al. 2023. Recent advances in flexible piezoresistive arrays:
Materials, design, and applications. Polymers 15(12):2699
146. Tang J, Li Y, Yu Y, Hu Q, Du W, Lin D. 2025. Recent progress in flexible piezoelectric tactile
sensors: Materials, structures, fabrication, and application. Sensors 25(3):964
147. Zhang J, Yao H, Mo J, Chen S, Xie Y, et al. 2022. Finger-inspired rigid-soft hybrid tactile
sensor with superior sensitivity at high frequency. Nature Communications 13(1):5076
148. Cheng AJ, Wu L, Sha Z, Chang W, Chu D, et al. 2023. Recent advances of capacitive sen-
sors: Materials, microstructure designs, applications, and opportunities. Advanced Materials
Technologies 8(11):2201959
149. Sarwar MS, Ishizaki R, Morton K, Preston C, Nguyen T, et al. 2023. Touch, press and stroke:
a soft capacitive sensor skin. Scientific Reports 13(1):17390
150. Su Q, Zou Q, Li Y, Chen Y, Teng SY, et al. 2021. A stretchable and strain-unperturbed
pressure sensor for motion interference–free tactile monitoring on skins. Science Advances
7(48):eabi4563
151. Hu H, Zhang C, Lai X, Dai H, Pan C, et al. 2024. Large-area magnetic skin for multi-point
and multi-scale tactile sensing with super-resolution. npj Flexible Electronics 8(1):42
152. Pattabiraman V, Huang Z, Panozzo D, Zorin D, Pinto L, Bhirangi R. 2025. eflesh: Highly cus-
tomizable magnetic touch sensing using cut-cell microstructures. arXiv:2506.09994v1 [cs.RO]
153. Bhirangi R, Hellebrekers T, Majidi C, Gupta A. 2021. ReSkin:versatile, replaceable, lasting
tactile skins. In Conference on Robot Learning CoRL. London, United Kingdom: Open Review
154. Liu Y, Wang J, Liu T, Wei Z, Luo B, et al. 2025. Triboelectric tactile sensor for pressure and
temperature sensing in high-temperature applications. Nature Communications 16(1):383
155. Song Z, Yin J, Wang Z, Lu C, Yang Z, et al. 2022. A flexible triboelectric tactile sensor for
simultaneous material and texture recognition. Nano Energy 93:106798
156. Yuan W, Dong S, Adelson EH. 2017. GelSight: High-resolution robot tactile sensors for esti-
mating geometry and force. Sensors 17(12):2762
157. Lambeta M, Wu T, Sengul A, Most VR, Black N, et al. 2024. Digitizing touch with an artificial
multimodal fingertip. arXiv:2411.02479v1 [cs.RO]
158. Zhao Z, Li W, Li Y, Liu T, Li B, et al. 2025. Embedding high-resolution touch across robotic
hands enables adaptive human-like grasping. Nature Machine Intelligence 7(6):889–900
159. Do WK, Kennedy M. 2022. DenseTact: optical tactile sensor for dense shape reconstruc-
tion. In IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 6188–6194.
Philadelphia, PA, USA: IEEE
160. Jassim HS, Akhter Y, Aalwahab DZ, Neamah HA. 2025. Recent advances in tactile sensing
technologies for human-robot interaction: Current trends and future perspectives. Biosensors
and Bioelectronics: X 26:100669
161. Lepora NF. 2026. Tactile robotics: Past and future. The International Journal of Robotics
Research 0(0):02783649261421615
162. Meribout M, Abule Takele N, Derege O, Rifiki N, El Khalil M, et al. 2024. Tactile sensors: A
review. Measurement 238:115332
163. Li H, Lin Y, Lu C, Yang M, Psomopoulou E, Lepora NF. 2025. Classification of vision-based
tactile sensors: A review. IEEE Sensors Journal 25(19):35672–35686
164. Cong Q, Oh S, Fan W, Luo S, Althoefer K, Zhang D. 2026. TacEva: A performance evaluation
framework for vision-based tactile sensors. Advanced Intelligent Systems 8(4):e202501179
165. Liu T, Ward-Cherrier B. 2024. The TIP benchmark: A tactile image-based psychophysics-
inspired benchmark for artificial tactile sensors. In Haptics: Understanding Touch; Technology
and Systems; Applications and Interaction, pp. 94–106. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag
166. Friedl WA, Roa MA. 2021. Experimental evaluation of tactile sensors for compliant robotic
hands. Frontiers in Robotics and AI 8:704416
34
Shilati et al.


167. Salvato E, Fenu G, Medvet E, Pellegrino FA. 2021. Crossing the reality gap: A survey on sim-
to-real transferability of robot controllers in reinforcement learning. IEEE Access 9:153171–
153187
168. Baggetta M, Rittore A, Berselli G. 2024. On the modeling of tendon-driven systems: a litera-
ture review. In IEEE/ASME International Conference on Mechatronic and Embedded Systems
and Applications (MESA), pp. 1–7. IEEE/ASME
169. Zhang Y, Wang H, Hughes J. 2026. Modular anthropomorphic hand design via multi-parameter
finger benchmarking and selection. arXiv:2606.11826v1 [cs.RO]
Benchmarking Dexterity of Multifingered Robot Hands
35
