FluxVLA Engine: A One-Stop VLA Engineering Platform for Embodied
Intelligence
Yinhao Li1, Weixin Mao1, Zihan Lan1, Jikun Rong1, Qirui Hu1, Yiming Zhang2,
Weipeng Deng3, Bowen Shen1, Minzhao Zhu1, Yiming Mao1, Yan Yang1, Chenguang Cui4,
Hongyuan Chen1, Xu Huang1, Zheyi Zhao1, Pinxi Shen1, Bozhen He1, Zhen Fu1,
Yifan Wang5, Zexin Zhang6, Ang Gao7, Haoyu Chen1, Chengqi Shi8, Hua Chen1
1LimX Dynamics
2Nankai University
3The University of Hong Kong
4University of Electronic Science and Technology of China
5Beijing Institute of Technology
6Xidian University
7Zhejiang University
8Xi’an Jiaotong University
Abstract
Vision–language–action (VLA) models, world–action mod-
els (WAMs), and offline reinforcement learning meth-
ods are rapidly expanding the design space of embod-
ied policies, yet turning these algorithms into reliable
robot systems remains constrained by fragmented data
formats, training stacks, evaluation protocols, inference
runtimes, and embodiment-specific interfaces. We present
FluxVLA Engine, an open, configuration-driven plat-
form that turns heterogeneous embodied-policy com-
ponents into a reproducible data-to-deployment work-
flow.
Rather than introducing another policy model,
FluxVLA standardizes interfaces for datasets, visual–
language and world models, action heads, reward- or
advantage-weighted learning, distributed training, simula-
tion evaluation, optimized inference, and robot operators.
The engine further integrates compositional dual-arm sim-
ulation, scalable automatic data generation, and model-
decoupled human-in-the-loop rollout, takeover, correction
collection, and reward annotation. For responsive physical
execution, it combines Real-Time Chunking (RTC) with
accelerated inference backends, lightweight remote GPU
serving, and configurable trajectory post-processing. To-
gether, these capabilities connect offline learning, simula-
tion validation, online correction, and real-robot execution
through shared and auditable contracts. FluxVLA there-
fore targets the engineering bottlenecks separating promis-
ing embodied-learning algorithms from reproducible eval-
uation and dependable deployment. Code is available at
https://github.com/FluxVLA/FluxVLA.
1
Introduction
1.1
Motivation and problem setting
Embodied policy learning now spans several complemen-
tary paradigms. Vision–language–action (VLA) models
map multimodal observations and language instructions
to robot actions [1, 2]; world–action models (WAMs) ad-
ditionally use predicted visual dynamics and temporally
rich world representations [3, 4]; and offline reinforcement
learning improves policies from previously collected expe-
rience without additional online data collection [5]. These
directions expand the range of tasks, data sources, and
embodiments available to robot learning, but an algo-
rithm or checkpoint is not yet a robot system. Turning a
research implementation into repeatable physical behavior
requires decisions outside the model architecture, span-
ning data representation, training infrastructure, reward
and advantage estimation, evaluation protocols, inference
runtimes, hardware communication, and operational safe-
guards. These decisions are often embedded in project-
specific code, making the path from a promising policy
to a working robot substantially harder than running the
model itself.
The first gap appears before deployment. VLA, WAM,
and offline policy implementations frequently make dif-
ferent assumptions about dataset schemas, camera order-
ing, observation history, robot-state encoding, coordinate
frames, action representations, normalization statistics,
and prediction horizons. Their training launchers, check-
point formats, and evaluation runners are similarly cou-
pled to specific models or benchmarks. Consequently,
integrating a new model or dataset often requires rebuild-
ing the same adapters and execution logic, while results
obtained through different preprocessing pipelines, eval-
uator versions, or rollout protocols can be difficult to
compare. This fragmentation not only slows iteration and
reproduction, but also obscures whether an observed gain
comes from the learning algorithm or from differences in
the surrounding system.
Physical deployment introduces a second, stricter gap.
Success in simulation does not by itself establish that a
policy can operate reliably on a real robot. A deployment
stack must reconcile model outputs with embodiment-
specific control modes and hardware interfaces while han-
dling observation staleness, inference latency, network
1
arXiv:2609.17210v1  [cs.RO]  15 Sep 2026


Vision
"Unzip the bag"
Language
Proprioception
Data Pipeline
Preprocess
Vision
Augmentation
Text
Augmentation
Normalization
Model
VLM Backbone
Qwen-VL
Eagle
PaliGemma
······
Custom VLM Model
LLM Backbone
Qwen
LLaMA
Gemma
Wan
······
Vision Encoder
CLIP
SigLIP
DINO
SAM
······
Projector
Linear
MLP
······
Action Head
Linear
MLP
Causal
Transformer
Diffusion
Transformer
Flow Matching
Head
······
Inference Engine
VLM Eval
Simulation
Runner
······
Real-World
Runner
······
Triton/CUDA
Acceleration
RTC
Training Engine
Training Strategy
DDP
FSDP
Optimizer
Scheduler
Checkpoint
Vision
Trajectory
Post-processing
Closed-loop performance
Average success (%)
Best result
LIBERO
98.65%
Range: 80-100%
best reported
80
90
95
100
SmolVLA
84.70
Cosmos3-Nano
96.90
GR00T N1.5
95.30
GR00T N1.7
95.93
FastWAM
97.45
π0
96.85
π0.5
97.95
DiT4DiT
98.65
RoboCasa GR-1
57.25%
Range: 5-60%
best reported
5
20
40
60
SmolVLA
8.75
Cosmos3-Nano
41.67
GR00T N1.5
44.30
GR00T N1.7
46.42
FastWAM
49.92
π0
51.00
π0.5
51.42
DiT4DiT
57.25
Figure 1: Overview of the FluxVLA engineering platform. Visual, language, and proprioceptive inputs enter a
configurable data pipeline before reaching either an integrated VLM backbone or a custom composition of language,
vision, and projector modules.
Replaceable action heads connect these representations to robot actions.
The
training engine manages distributed strategies, optimization, scheduling, and checkpointing, while the inference engine
connects evaluation, simulation, physical-robot runners, accelerated kernels, RTC, and trajectory post-processing to
heterogeneous embodiments. Right: average closed-loop success for eight policies evaluated on LIBERO and RoboCasa
GR-1. Orange highlights the best reported result; axes are truncated to the labeled ranges. Training and evaluation
budgets differ across integrations; complete results are given in Tables 7 and 8.
jitter, action scheduling, and safety constraints. This is
especially challenging for action-chunking VLA policies:
model inference may be slower than the robot control loop,
and asynchronously executing one chunk while predicting
the next can produce discontinuities at chunk boundaries.
Even a temporally consistent prediction may remain un-
suitable for direct execution under embodiment-specific
motion constraints. Hosting a large policy on a remote
GPU relaxes robot-side compute requirements, but adds
serialization, transport, timeout, and recovery concerns.
Runtime acceleration, temporal coordination, trajectory
post-processing, serving, and robot operators must there-
fore be treated as first-class parts of the learning system
rather than as deployment details added after training.
Bridging these gaps requires a closed engineering loop:
collect and standardize data, train interchangeable poli-
cies, validate them in simulation, execute them through
optimized local or remote inference, capture failures and
human corrections, and feed the resulting experience back
into training. FluxVLA is designed around this loop.
Rather than proposing another policy architecture, it pro-
vides a common engineering layer for composing models,
world-model components, reward or advantage signals,
data, evaluators, runtime optimizations, and robot in-
terfaces, with the goal of turning embodied-intelligence
research artifacts into systems that can be reproduced,
measured, and iteratively improved on physical robots.
Figure 1 summarizes the platform architecture and repre-
sentative simulation results.
1.2
Scope
FluxVLA is a configuration-driven engineering plat-
form spanning data preparation, model construction,
distributed training, simulation evaluation, inference
optimization, trajectory post-processing, serving, and
physical-robot deployment. Its scope is the reusable infras-
tructure and the contracts connecting these stages. The
platform integrates existing VLA and WAM architectures,
offline and reward-weighted learning workflows, bench-
marks, simulators, reward models, and robot SDKs, but
does not claim their underlying algorithmic contributions
as new. Performance results are therefore attributed to
the corresponding model and protocol, while the platform
is evaluated through integration breadth, reproducibility,
runtime behavior, and deployment coverage.
1.3
Contributions
To bridge the gap between rapidly evolving embodied-
policy models and the fragmented engineering stacks
needed to train, evaluate, and deploy them, we present
FluxVLA. Rather than introducing another model-
specific implementation, the platform provides a reusable
full-stack foundation organized around four engineering
principles: unification, modularity, deployability, and re-
producibility. Our main contributions are:
1. A unified, configuration-driven embodied-policy
workflow. A single configuration connects data pro-
cessing, model construction, optimization, evaluation,
2


and deployment for VLA, WAM, and offline policies.
2. A modular and extensible system architecture.
Registry-based interfaces decouple major data, model,
execution, and robot components, enabling new meth-
ods to reuse the shared system workflow.
3. A deployment-ready and optimized execution
stack. A unified runtime combines simulation and
robot execution, local and remote inference, GPU ac-
celeration, RTC, and trajectory post-processing for
efficient and continuous control across embodiments.
4. A reproducible experimentation pipeline. Stan-
dardized experiment artifacts, resumable training, de-
terministic controls, and structured evaluation improve
reproducibility across models, benchmarks, and deploy-
ment environments.
2
Related Work
FluxVLA lies at the intersection of vision–language–
action (VLA) and world–action modeling (WAM), offline
and reward-guided policy learning, robot-learning infras-
tructure, and deployment systems. These areas are tightly
coupled in a working robot stack but address different
questions.
Model papers study how observations and
instructions are mapped to actions or future visual dy-
namics; offline learning studies how logged experience can
improve a policy; datasets and benchmarks determine
what experience and evaluation protocols are available;
and engineering platforms determine whether these meth-
ods can be trained, compared, and deployed through one
reproducible path. We review these lines separately and
then delimit the claims of this report.
2.1
Engineering platforms for model de-
velopment
Mature perception toolboxes established an important
precedent for treating software architecture as a systems
contribution. MMDetection [6] organizes detectors from
many papers through registries, reusable components,
declarative configurations, and common training and eval-
uation tools. MMDetection3D [7] extends the pattern to
heterogeneous 3D detectors, datasets, and sensor modal-
ities. Their relevance here is methodological: support
breadth becomes scientifically useful when alternative
components obey explicit contracts and can be evaluated
under controlled configurations, rather than being isolated
reproductions with unrelated scripts.
Robot-learning libraries bring this toolbox idea closer to
embodied systems. robomimic provides standardized im-
plementations and empirical comparisons for learning ma-
nipulation policies from offline human demonstrations [8].
LeRobot [9] spans hardware interfaces, data collection and
storage, policy implementations, training, visualization,
and asynchronous inference. StarVLA targets Lego-like
VLA development through modular model abstractions,
reusable training strategies, and unified benchmark in-
terfaces [10]. These systems substantially lower the cost
of reproduction, yet a shared model API alone does not
guarantee consistency across preprocessing, checkpoint
restoration, evaluation, serving, and physical execution.
FluxVLA follows this toolbox tradition while mak-
ing the complete configuration-resolved execution path
its unit of integration. A supported method therefore
includes its dataset and ordered transforms, model con-
struction, distributed runner, self-contained checkpoint,
evaluator or inference runner, and simulator or robot oper-
ator. The report evaluates whether heterogeneous policy
families can share stable interfaces from offline data to
real-device execution, rather than treating the number
of registered model names as the primary evidence of
support.
2.2
Embodied policy architectures
Early generalist policies demonstrated that transformer
sequence models can represent many language-conditioned
robot skills in a single network. RT-1 tokenizes obser-
vations and actions for scalable real-world control [11],
while RT-2 co-fine-tunes vision–language models on web
and robot data so that semantic knowledge can influence
action prediction [12]. Subsequent open-source systems
expose several distinct action interfaces that an engineer-
ing platform must preserve rather than flatten into one
nominal “VLA” abstraction.
Discrete and autoregressive actions.
OpenVLA
casts continuous control as next-token prediction by
discretizing actions and adapting a pretrained vision–
language model on robot trajectories [1]. FAST combines
a DCT-based frequency representation, quantization, and
byte-pair encoding to compress action chunks into sub-
stantially fewer tokens than per-timestep discretization,
making autoregressive learning on high-frequency control
data more tractable [13]. Such methods inherit language-
model training and decoding machinery but introduce
policy-specific choices about quantization, token ordering,
de-tokenization, and sequential inference. They motivate
explicit tokenizer and action-space contracts instead of
conversions hidden inside a particular backbone.
Continuous action chunks and generative policies.
Action Chunking with Transformers predicts temporally
extended action sequences and temporally ensembles over-
lapping predictions [14]. Diffusion Policy instead repre-
sents multimodal visuomotor behavior with a conditional
denoising process [15]. Octo demonstrates an open-source
generalist transformer policy trained across heterogeneous
robot datasets [16]. More recent VLAs combine large pre-
trained representations with continuous generative action
heads: π0 couples a vision–language model to a flow-
matching action expert [17], π0.5 extends the approach
3


toward heterogeneous data and open-world generaliza-
tion [18], and GR00T N1 combines a vision–language rea-
soning module with a diffusion-transformer action module
for generalist humanoid control [2]. SmolVLA investigates
a related interface under stronger efficiency and accessibil-
ity constraints [19]. LLaVA connects a pretrained visual
encoder to a language model through a learned projection
layer, exemplifying modular visual–language integration
[20]; action generation remains policy-specific.
These policies differ not only in backbone size. They
require distinct action horizons, noise or time param-
eterizations, state-conditioning paths, attention masks,
normalization conventions, and inference loops. Conse-
quently, interchangeability should be claimed only at an
interface whose tensors and semantics actually agree; a
common base class is not evidence that every backbone
and action head can be freely combined.
World–action models.
WAMs use video or latent dy-
namics during policy learning and may jointly model
future visual trajectories and actions. DreamZero adapts
pretrained video generation into a zero-shot policy
that produces future visual and action trajectories [3].
DiT4DiT jointly models video dynamics and actions with
diffusion transformers [4]. Fast-WAM separates the ben-
efit of video co-training from test-time imagination and
omits future-video generation during action inference [21].
Relative to conventional VLA heads, these methods intro-
duce video tokenization, temporal packing, cross-modal
attention, additional training targets, and substantially
different memory and scheduling behavior. Their coexis-
tence with autoregressive and flow-based VLAs motivates
FluxVLA’s separation of backbones, temporal or world
modules, action heads, losses, and inference procedures
behind typed data contracts.
2.3
Offline and reward-guided policy im-
provement
Offline reinforcement learning seeks to improve a pol-
icy from a fixed dataset without additional online data
collection [5]. Its central difficulty is distribution shift:
value estimates can become unreliable for actions insuffi-
ciently represented by the behavior data. Conservative
Q-Learning regularizes learned values against this failure
mode [22], whereas Implicit Q-Learning avoids explic-
itly evaluating out-of-distribution actions and extracts a
policy through advantage-weighted regression [23]. In an
adjacent interactive setting, DAgger aggregates expert
action labels for states visited by the learned policy, di-
rectly addressing the train–execution state-distribution
mismatch [24].
For large robot policies, reward models, progress esti-
mates, and sample reweighting provide practical bridges
between supervised imitation and policy improvement.
ARM, for example, uses learned advantage estimates to
reweight behavior-cloning updates for long-horizon manip-
ulation [25]. These methods require more than replacing
a loss function: datasets must retain reward, progress,
source-policy, and intervention metadata; transforms and
collators must preserve sample weights; runners must
coordinate policy and reward-model computation; and
evaluation must distinguish algorithmic improvement from
changes in the underlying data mixture. FluxVLA there-
fore treats offline and reward-guided learning as extensions
of the same data, model, and runner contracts used for
supervised VLA and WAM training.
2.4
Robot data and evaluation bench-
marks
Large heterogeneous datasets make cross-embodiment
learning possible while turning data semantics into a
first-order systems concern. RLDS introduced a common
episodic representation for sharing sequential decision
data [26]; Open X-Embodiment aggregates trajectories
from multiple institutions and robot platforms and uses
them to train RT-X models [27]; and LeRobot [9] provides
a practical representation and tooling stack for storing,
visualizing, streaming, and processing robot episodes. A
common container improves portability but does not by
itself reconcile camera order, control frequency, coordi-
nate frames, proprioceptive state, action parameterization,
normalization statistics, episode boundaries, or language
annotations. These conversions must remain explicit, or-
dered, and versionable if training and inference are to
implement the same observation–action contract.
Simulation benchmarks offer repeatable closed-loop test-
ing, but they measure different capability distributions.
LIBERO organizes language-guided manipulation into
suites for knowledge transfer and lifelong learning [28].
RoboCasa provides large-scale household simulation, di-
verse kitchen scenes and assets, and everyday manipu-
lation tasks [29]. These benchmarks are complementary
rather than directly interchangeable: task versions, obser-
vation spaces, initialization distributions, action horizons,
checkpoint selection, and trial counts must be aligned be-
fore success rates can support a meaningful comparison.
Accordingly, the quantitative core of this report is re-
stricted to benchmark paths accompanied by runnable
configurations, evaluator versions, checkpoints, and ex-
plicit aggregation procedures. LIBERO and RoboCasa
provide the principal simulation evidence in the current
release. Other adapters are counted as engineering cov-
erage only when their corresponding evaluation artifacts
are available; a configuration stub or empty result table
is not treated as benchmark support.
2.5
Inference and physical deployment
Physical execution changes the objective from merely
predicting an action to delivering safe and temporally
consistent commands at a stable control rate. Although
action chunking amortizes policy queries, a robot may
4


continue executing an outdated chunk while the next
prediction is being computed. The original Real-Time
Chunking method addresses this asynchronous setting
with inference-time guidance-based inpainting, using a
vector–Jacobian product to condition each newly gener-
ated flow-policy chunk on actions already committed for
execution [30]. Training-Time Action Conditioning later
moves this capability into the learned policy: training
simulates inference delay so that inference can directly
condition on the known action prefix [31]. Both routes
enable asynchronous policy inference while reducing dis-
continuities at chunk boundaries. LeRobot [9] likewise
identifies asynchronous inference as part of an end-to-end
learning stack.
Prediction-time consistency does not by itself guar-
antee an executable motion. After denormalization, a
chunk may still violate execution-side motion requirements
or connect poorly to the trajectory already in progress.
Trajectory post-processing addresses this boundary after
prediction. It complements RTC: RTC shapes the next
prediction, while post-processing shapes the command
ultimately sent to the robot.
This temporal coordination must be combined with
systems-level inference optimization. Reduced-precision
execution, CUDA Graph capture, fused operators, and op-
timized attention kernels can increase model throughput.
Realtime-VLA demonstrates a complementary systems
path by running a π0-level multi-view VLA at 30 Hz on a
single consumer GPU and proposes a full streaming infer-
ence framework for higher-frequency control [32]. Local
and remote inference runners then determine how predic-
tions are delivered to the robot. Remote serving addition-
ally introduces serialization, network latency, timeouts,
health checks, reset semantics, and recovery behavior.
The deployment interface must therefore track observa-
tion timestamps, committed actions, execution horizons,
communication latency, and failure handling. In this re-
port, model-only throughput is consequently separated
from end-to-end control frequency. Inference acceleration,
RTC, and trajectory post-processing are therefore treated
as complementary components of the deployment stack.
2.6
Positioning and claim boundary
This report studies FluxVLA as an engineering plat-
form. The platform owns the configuration and build
path, unified data adapters and composable transforms,
component registries, training and evaluation runners,
checkpoint and serving plumbing, runtime optimizations,
and robot-facing operators implemented in the released
code. It integrates—but does not claim authorship of—
upstream architectures, pretrained weights, datasets, sim-
ulators, benchmarks, robot SDKs, or their algorithmic
contributions.
Four boundaries follow. First, the report does not pro-
pose a universal VLA or WAM architecture; it studies
whether heterogeneous architectures can coexist behind
stable contracts. Second, it does not introduce a bench-
mark and follows the protocols and limitations of the
suites it integrates. Third, a registry entry is not evidence
of end-to-end support: training requires a reproducible
checkpoint, evaluation requires a fixed protocol and raw
rollouts, and deployment requires a runnable operator
and measured execution.
Finally, performance claims
are confined to matched data, checkpoints, evaluators,
hardware, and trial counts. Measurements from different
settings are reported as separate system results rather
than evidence of universal superiority.
3
System Design and Overview
A VLA engineering system must accommodate two forms
of change at the same time. The learning stack evolves as
new visual–language backbones, action representations,
and optimization strategies are introduced, while the exe-
cution stack varies across datasets, simulators, inference
hardware, and physical robots. A design that couples
these choices quickly degenerates into parallel model-
specific code paths: each integration obtains its own data
loader, launcher, evaluator, and deployment script, and
improvements made in one path do not propagate to the
others. FluxVLA is designed to avoid this fragmentation
by separating component selection from component im-
plementation and by expressing the complete experiment
lifecycle through common configuration and execution
contracts.
This chapter presents the system from the outside in.
We first describe the overall design, including the registry
and configuration mechanisms, the separation of modules,
the train–evaluate lifecycle, and the construction of self-
contained inference artifacts. The subsequent sections
follow the path of an experiment: data preparation and
transformation, model composition, simulation evaluation,
real-robot inference, inference acceleration, Real-Time
Chunking (RTC), and trajectory post-processing. This
ordering is intentional. It makes explicit how the same
configuration and intermediate representations connect
offline training to closed-loop execution, while keeping
benchmark- and robot-specific logic at the boundaries
of the system. The complete workflow is summarized in
Figure 1.
3.1
Overall design
Design
objective.
The
primary
objective
of
FluxVLA is to make a VLA experiment a composable
and reconstructable system rather than a collection of
scripts. The framework is therefore organized around four
principles. Unification places data, model, optimization,
evaluation, and deployment choices in one experiment
description.
Modularity separates implementations
behind explicit construction and runtime interfaces. De-
ployability preserves the model and preprocessing path
while replacing only the environment- or robot-facing
5


execution layer. Reproducibility records the resolved
experiment state and exports the artifacts required to
evaluate or deploy the trained policy. These principles
are implemented jointly: a registry without a complete
configuration does not reproduce an experiment, while a
configuration without stable module boundaries merely
moves hard-coded coupling into a different file.
Registry-based construction.
FluxVLA uses type-
keyed registries to decouple component selection from
implementation. Data, model, training, evaluation, and
deployment modules are declared through configuration
and instantiated through a shared construction interface.
Nested modules are assembled by their owning compo-
nents, localizing architecture-specific composition while
preserving a uniform system-level workflow.
This mechanism removes model selection from the train-
ing and inference entry points. The launcher asks for a
dataset or runner to be built; it does not contain a branch
for every supported policy family. Adding an implementa-
tion therefore consists of registering the new component
and supplying a configuration that satisfies the exist-
ing contract, rather than copying the entire workflow.
Importantly, registration establishes a construction in-
terface, not unrestricted interchangeability. Components
must still agree on field names, tensor shapes, action
dimensions, temporal horizons, and lifecycle semantics.
Model-specific adapters remain appropriate when those
semantics differ, but the differences are localized rather
than propagated through the whole stack.
Modular system boundaries.
The platform separates
five major responsibilities. The data layer maps stored
episodes and online observations into a canonical sample
dictionary through composable transforms and collators.
The model layer maps that dictionary to losses during
training or action chunks during inference. The execution
layer owns distributed setup, optimization, checkpoint-
ing, evaluation loops, and runtime state. The serving
layer transports observations and actions when the pol-
icy and robot execute in different processes or machines.
The execution layer can additionally apply trajectory
post-processing after denormalization, keeping motion
constraints and cross-chunk stitching independent of the
policy architecture. Finally, the operator layer translates
between the framework-level state/action contract and a
simulator or robot SDK. This decomposition allows, for
example, a new robot operator to reuse an existing policy
and inference runner, or a new action head to reuse the
same dataset and distributed training engine.
The boundary between runners and operators is par-
ticularly important. Runners own model-side decisions
such as observation assembly, action-chunk scheduling,
local versus remote prediction, and RTC state. Operators
own hardware-facing I/O, including sensor acquisition and
command transport. Keeping these responsibilities sepa-
rate prevents robot communication code from becoming a
hidden dependency of the model and lets simulation and
physical execution share the same policy-facing interface.
Configuration as an executable experiment spec-
ification.
FluxVLA uses hierarchical Python config-
urations to describe an experiment end to end. A con-
figuration specifies the model, data pipeline, training
strategy, evaluation protocol, and deployment interface,
while inheritance allows common settings to be reused
across models, datasets, and embodiments. After reso-
lution, the configuration serves as the single source of
truth for component construction and runtime behavior.
This design makes experiments reproducible and allows
training, evaluation, and inference to share consistent
data and model semantics without relying on separately
maintained scripts.
A
closed
train–evaluate
lifecycle.
FluxVLA
supports
both
standalone
evaluation
and
an
eval-after-train workflow.
When enabled,
the
checkpoint produced by training is automatically passed
to the evaluator defined by the same experiment configu-
ration. Evaluation begins as a separate stage after the
training environment has been released, preserving a clean
execution boundary while maintaining consistent model,
data, and evaluation semantics.
This closed lifecycle
reduces manual coordination, avoids configuration and
checkpoint mismatches, and makes reported results easier
to reproduce.
A self-contained inference artifact.
A common de-
ployment failure in robot-learning systems is that a train-
ing checkpoint contains only task-specific updates while
implicitly depending on the original pretrained weights,
configuration files, or preprocessing assets. Such hidden
dependencies make checkpoints difficult to transfer and
can cause training and inference to use inconsistent model
or data semantics.
FluxVLA addresses this problem by packaging the
complete trained model state together with the resolved
configuration and the metadata required for inference.
Evaluation and deployment can therefore reconstruct the
trained policy directly from the run artifact without locat-
ing the original pretraining weights. This self-contained
handoff reduces configuration and version mismatches
and provides a consistent interface between training, sim-
ulation, serving, and physical-robot deployment, while
leaving the software environment and hardware-specific
dependencies explicit.
3.2
Data pipeline
The data pipeline has two responsibilities that are easy
to conflate. First, it must ingest trajectories produced
by different simulators and robot platforms. Second, it
must present each model with the exact observation, lan-
guage, state, and action semantics assumed by that model.
6


FluxVLA separates these responsibilities into a storage-
facing dataset layer and a configuration-defined trans-
form layer. Dataset classes recover temporally consistent
samples from an episode store; transforms then convert
those samples into a model-facing dictionary. This sepa-
ration keeps physical storage choices out of model code
and makes differences in preprocessing visible in the ex-
periment configuration. As illustrated in Figure 2, raw
sources are first converted to a unified Parquet represen-
tation compatible with the LeRobot dataset format [9]. A
ParquetDataset then owns an ordered list of registered
transforms that can be inserted, replaced, or rearranged
entirely through configuration. Online inference follows
the same pattern: an environment-specific dataset or
adapter receives observations and executes its own con-
figured transform list to produce the same model-facing
semantics.
Episode storage and ingestion.
The principal offline
representation is compatible with the LeRobot dataset
layout [9]. Low-dimensional signals and episode indices
are stored in Parquet, while camera observations are ref-
erenced from per-episode video files; metadata records
the feature schema, tasks, episodes, and per-feature statis-
tics. FluxVLA reads both the established LeRobot v2.1
metadata layout and the v3 layout, whose tasks and
episode metadata may themselves be stored as Parquet
files.
This compatibility allows the data layer to use
the Hugging Face datasets implementation for indexed
low-dimensional records without requiring images to be
expanded into the tabular store.
For data collected outside this representation, conver-
sion is treated as an explicit ingestion step. The pro-
vided ALOHA conversion path, for example, turns HDF5
episodes containing joint state, optional end-effector pose,
action, and camera streams into LeRobot-compatible Par-
quet, metadata, and video assets. The converter also
makes otherwise implicit embodiment conventions—such
as camera names, arm ordering, gripper representation,
and video frame rate—part of the generated dataset.
Dataset roots can optionally carry a FluxVLA content ver-
sion; when an expected version is configured, loading fails
on a missing or mismatched version rather than silently
training on stale data.
Episode-aware temporal sampling.
Robot trajecto-
ries contain temporal dependencies that cannot be cap-
tured by treating individual rows as independent samples.
FluxVLA therefore constructs each training example
from an episode-consistent temporal window containing
the current observation, a future action chunk, and, when
required, multi-frame visual context.
Sampling never
crosses episode boundaries, while masks prevent padded
observations or actions from contributing unintended su-
pervision. Temporal and camera dimensions are canoni-
calized before model-specific preprocessing, allowing the
same stored trajectories to support single-frame VLAs,
action-chunk policies, and video-based world–action mod-
els.
Canonical sample representation.
Robot datasets
often encode equivalent observations and actions using
dataset-specific schemas. FluxVLA resolves these dif-
ferences through a canonical sample representation that
unifies visual observations, proprioceptive states, language
instructions, action targets, validity masks, and optional
metadata. This representation forms a stable interface
between data storage and model-specific preprocessing.
Its extensible dictionary-based design accommodates addi-
tional modalities, embodiment information, and learning
signals without changing unrelated components, thereby
simplifying the integration of heterogeneous datasets and
policy families.
Statistics and normalization.
FluxVLA derives nor-
malization statistics from the associated dataset meta-
data and applies them consistently to states and actions.
Multiple normalization strategies are supported to ac-
commodate heterogeneous data distributions and mixed
continuous or discrete representations. The statistics used
during training are preserved with the resulting model
artifact and reused during evaluation and deployment.
This coupling prevents discrepancies between training-
time preprocessing and inference-time action recovery,
while allowing different datasets and policy families to
share the same data pipeline.
Multi-source sampling and batching.
The outer
dataset wrapper turns one or more finite episode datasets
into the iterable consumed by distributed training. It
supports a single source, concatenated sources with
shared statistics, and grouped sources that retain sep-
arate normalization domains. Samples are deterministi-
cally sharded over both distributed ranks and data-loader
workers; optional epoch-wise reshuffling changes the order
without duplicating a rank’s shard. A balanced variant
defines a virtual epoch over multiple sources so that large
datasets do not automatically dominate small ones, with
optional configured sampling weights when the intended
training mixture is not uniform.
The final collator makes batching behavior explicit.
Fixed-shape numeric fields are stacked, textual or diag-
nostic metadata is retained as lists, and model-specific
collators pad variable-length language or action-token se-
quences while constructing attention masks and ignore
labels. The resulting batch is passed to the VLA without
additional data-dependent logic in the training loop. This
keeps the runner agnostic to whether a batch originated
from one robot, several embodiments, or a mixture of
model-specific preprocessing paths.
Consistency between training and closed-loop in-
ference.
Simulation and real-robot execution begin
from online observations rather than Parquet rows, so they
7


From robot episodes to model-ready batches
DATASET  >  TEMPORAL SAMPLE  >  TRANSFORMS  >  BATCH  >  MODEL
1
LeRobot episode
external camera
wrist camera
LANGUAGE INSTRUCTION
"put the white mug on the left plate and
put the yellow and white mug on the right
plate"
PROPRIOCEPTIVE STATE
Parquet
Video
Metadata
2
Temporal sample
Observation context
t
t+k
t+2k
Future action chunk
mask
EPISODE CONSISTENCY
Frames and action targets
remain inside one trajectory.
frames
masks
3
Config-composed transforms
ARBITRARY ORDERED COMPOSITION
T1
T2
...
Tn
MAP &
DECODE
Fields + media
Canonical
image  |  state  |  action
PROMPT &
TOKENIZE
"put mug on left
plate ..."
Token mask
IMAGE
OPS
Resize / augment
Standard views
Pixels
NORMALIZE
& PACK
State + action
Norm + pad
Tensor mask
Insert, remove, repeat, or reorder any registered transform.
4
Batch
STACK
PAD
MASK
images
tokens
state
actions
masks
5
Model
VLA
or WAM
INPUT
BATCH
vision
text
state
action
mask
A configurable sequence of registered transforms converts each episode sample into the multimodal batch expected by the model.
Figure 2: Configuration-driven data processing in FluxVLA. Heterogeneous trajectories are converted to one LeRobot-
compatible Parquet representation containing indexed signals, video assets, schemas, tasks, and statistics. The training
configuration places an ordered, freely composable transform list inside ParquetDataset; this list performs input
mapping, prompting, image processing, normalization, padding, and any model-specific preparation before collation.
Inference mirrors this organization with an online observation adapter and another configuration-defined transform list
built from the same registry and semantic keys. Run-local statistics are reused to denormalize predicted actions.
use environment-specific input adapters. Nevertheless, the
adapters converge to the same model-facing dictionary
and reuse the same registered prompt, image, state, and
action transforms. Evaluation loads the normalization
statistics stored with the checkpoint, applies the config-
ured state normalization before prediction, and applies
the inverse action transform before sending commands
to the environment or robot. Image-history buffers and
episode-reset signals are handled explicitly for temporal
models. Thus, training and deployment need not share
the same storage backend, but they share the semantic
preprocessing contract that determines what the policy
actually observes and what its output means.
3.3
Model architecture
The model layer is designed to preserve the native struc-
ture of substantially different VLA algorithms while ex-
posing a small interface to the rest of the system. This
distinction is important: forcing every policy into one
internal network topology would simplify the launcher
at the cost of changing the methods being reproduced.
Instead, FluxVLA standardizes construction, batch se-
mantics, loss reporting, action prediction, and distributed
wrapping, while allowing each model family to retain its
own multimodal fusion and action generation procedure.
Figure 3 presents this construction boundary in the origi-
nal configuration-to-model layout: an executable model
description selects registered components or a native pol-
icy wrapper, while the execution-engine and deployment
lifecycle are intentionally omitted.
A configurable model graph.
The common BaseVLA
class defines slots for a vision backbone, a language back-
bone, an integrated vision–language backbone, a modality
projector, and an action head. A model may use a decom-
posed path—for example, a vision encoder whose patch
features are projected into the embedding space of a causal
language model—or delegate multimodal fusion to an in-
tegrated VLM. The optional action head consumes the
fused representation together with proprioceptive state
and other conditioning variables. Each slot is built from
its own registry and configuration block, so replacing a
visual encoder, projector, VLM, or action head does not
require a new training entry point.
This graph is intentionally permissive rather than artifi-
cially uniform. Architectures such as π0 contain a coupled
language model and action expert; world–action models
may contain a video VAE, a text encoder, and multiple
diffusion-transformer streams; Cosmos3 performs modal-
ity packing inside a mixture-of-transformers backbone.
Such components remain owned by their model-specific
VLA class when their interaction is part of the original
algorithm. They still participate in the same registry,
checkpoint, runner, and inference contracts. Modularity
therefore means that architectural differences have ex-
plicit boundaries, not that all networks are reduced to an
interchangeable sequence of layers.
Unified training and prediction contracts.
Differ-
ent policy families often require model-specific inputs,
objectives, and decoding procedures, forcing training and
evaluation pipelines to accumulate specialized branches.
FluxVLA addresses this fragmentation through a com-
8


FluxVLA model composition
CONFIG  >  REGISTRIES  >  POLICY FAMILY  >  ACTION
1
Executable config
2
Registry-built model graph
One model specification
selects the policy wrapper, registered
modules, and trainable subset.
model = dict(
  type='...',
  vlm_backbone={...},
  vla_head={...},
  trainability={...},
)
WRAPPER
top-level policy graph
MODULES
backbones / heads / experts
ADAPTATION
freeze / LoRA / full
SAME LAUNCHER, DIFFERENT GRAPH
build_vla_from_cfg
VLAS registry
policy wrapper owns the native model graph
SHARED COMPONENT REGISTRIES
Multimodal backbone
Qwen
Eagle
Pali
Vision + language
SigLIP / DINO / LLaMA / Gemma
Projector
Linear / MLP
Action head
autoregressive / direct / flow
Video / world
Wan
Cosmos
Tokenizer
text / action / video
Composable VLA
registered modules
Native VLA
coupled wrappers
World-Action Models (WAM)
world + action generation
LLaVA-style
modular VLA
GR00T
Eagle + flow
Integrated VLM
Vision > MLP > LLM
Registered action head
Action chunk
OpenVLA
autoregressive action tokens
pi0 / pi0.5
VLM prefix + action expert
SmolVLA
compact flow policy
native fusion preserved
DreamZero
FastWAM
DiT4DiT
Cosmos3
JOINT WORLD-ACTION GENERATION
video + language
robot state
world / video branch
action branch
future visual latent
action chunk
Shared interface: forward(**batch) -> losses    |    predict_action(**batch) -> action chunk
Figure 3: Configuration-driven model composition in FluxVLA. An executable model specification selects a top-level
policy wrapper and its trainability choices. The registry-driven model graph can assemble an integrated or decomposed
multimodal backbone with a registered action head, while native wrappers preserve tightly coupled autoregressive,
action-expert, temporal, and world–action architectures. The figure deliberately excludes the runner/engine and
deployment lifecycle.
mon model-facing contract: policies consume a canon-
ical multimodal representation and produce standard-
ized training objectives or executable action sequences.
Architecture-specific validation, masking, fusion, and gen-
eration remain encapsulated within each policy, while
environment-specific post-processing is handled by the
corresponding adapter. Consequently, autoregressive poli-
cies, flow-based VLAs, and world–action models can share
the same training and evaluation workflows without sac-
rificing their native algorithmic structure.
Multimodal representation and conditioning.
For
decomposed VLA models, the vision backbone converts
one or more camera views into patch features, and a
linear or multilayer projector maps those features to the
language-model width. The resulting visual embeddings
are inserted into the language sequence with corresponding
attention masks. An integrated VLM instead returns a
normalized backbone output containing hidden states,
a fused attention mask, and, when applicable, auxiliary
losses. This small output contract allows backbones such
as Eagle, PaliGemma, Qwen-VL, Florence, and SmolVLM
to differ internally while remaining usable by a common
model-facing interface.
Proprioception and embodiment information are kept
separate until the point at which the target algorithm con-
sumes them. A flow head may project the robot state into
a conditioning token, concatenate an embodiment embed-
ding, and cross-attend to VLM features. An action-expert
architecture may instead append state, noised-action, and
time embeddings as a suffix to a cached visual–language
prefix. Temporal models receive canonical video tensors
and frame masks rather than independent images. In each
case, the data pipeline defines the physical meaning of
the values, while the model defines how those values enter
its computation graph.
Autoregressive action generation.
The OpenVLA
path follows the discrete-action formulation of Open-
VLA [1].
A continuous action vector is quantized by
an action tokenizer and appended to the language target.
If zk is the token assigned to action component k, training
minimizes masked next-token cross-entropy,
Ltok = −
1
P
k mk
X
k
mk log pθ(zk | o, l, z<k) ,
where o and l denote visual observation and language
instruction, and mk excludes non-action or padded tar-
gets. Inference uses the causal model’s generation path
and converts the generated token IDs back to continuous
values. The implementation also reports token accuracy
and the ℓ1 error after de-tokenization, separating the op-
timized language-model objective from a metric in the
robot action space.
Continuous flow-matching policies.
Continuous
policies retain action chunks as real-valued tensors and
9


Table 1: Principal policy composition patterns represented in the FluxVLA model layer. The table describes shared
engineering paths rather than claiming that the listed algorithms are architecturally identical.
Composition pattern
Representative integrations
Conditioning path
Action interface
Autoregressive action
tokens
OpenVLA
Vision encoder, projector, and
causal language model
Token cross-entropy followed
by action de-tokenization
VLM features with a
replaceable head
LLaVA-style policies and
GR00T
Integrated or decomposed
VLM produces masked hidden
features
Direct or flow-matching head
produces continuous actions
VLM with an action expert
π0, π0.5, and SmolVLA
Visual–language prefix
conditions state, time, and
noisy-action tokens
Iterative flow integration
produces an action chunk
Temporal or world–action
model
DreamZero, DiT4DiT,
FastWAM, and Cosmos3
Language and video latents are
processed with
temporal/action streams
Action objective, optionally
coupled to dynamics or visual
generation
learn a velocity field between demonstrations and noise.
Under the convention used by the π0 implementation, for
a clean action chunk a, noise ϵ, and sampled time t, the
interpolated input and target velocity are
xt = (1 −t)a + tϵ,
ut = ϵ −a.
The model predicts vθ(xt, t | o, l, s), and training ap-
plies masked mean-squared error over valid timesteps
and action dimensions.
At inference, sampling starts
from noise and numerically integrates the learned field to-
ward a clean action chunk. GR00T’s feature-conditioned
diffusion-transformer head, π0/π0.5 action experts, and
SmolVLA’s compact expert use different fusion and pa-
rameterization details [2, 17, 18, 19]; FluxVLA preserves
those details behind the shared loss and predict_action
interfaces. The same reduction path can also apply per-
sample weights, allowing data-selection or reward-derived
weighting to alter behavioral-cloning emphasis without
rewriting each optimizer loop.
Temporal and world–action models.
The model
boundary also accommodates policies whose visual input
is a temporal object rather than a set of current-frame
features.
DreamZero combines encoded video latents,
language, state, and actions under a joint flow-matching
objective [3]; its FluxVLA integration reports the vi-
sual dynamics and action loss components separately.
DiT4DiT couples a video diffusion transformer with a
separate action diffusion transformer conditioned on vi-
sual dynamics and proprioceptive state [4]; its FluxVLA
wrapper enforces the corresponding video, state, action,
and mask inputs through an explicit tensor contract. Fast-
WAM constructs video and action experts around a shared
mixture-of-transformers computation [21], while Cosmos3
packs text, visual latents, and action tokens into a mul-
timodal flow-matching sequence and can optionally op-
timize a visual objective alongside the action objective.
The shared runner only consumes their total loss and
action output; cache management, latent layout, repeated
diffusion steps, and auxiliary objectives remain local to
the corresponding implementation.
Initialization and adaptation.
Model construction
is separated from pretrained-weight import. A VLA can
load safetensors, a directory of tensor shards, or a Py-
Torch checkpoint. Because upstream projects frequently
use different module names, configurable name mappings
translate external parameter paths to the FluxVLA mod-
ule graph; strict loading can be enabled when an exact
mapping is required. Shape checks and explicit mapping
failures make partial or incompatible initialization visible
instead of silently redefining the model.
Trainability is likewise configuration controlled. Vision,
language, integrated VLM, and projector modules may be
frozen independently; specialized backbones can refine this
policy for submodules that must remain trainable. Full-
parameter training and LoRA adaptation share the same
dataset and runner contracts. Finally, each VLA provides
an FSDP wrapping policy aligned with its transformer
blocks and constituent modules. These mechanisms keep
optimization choices outside the semantic definition of the
policy while ensuring that a large heterogeneous model can
still be initialized, fine-tuned, checkpointed, and restored
through the common system lifecycle.
3.4
Simulation evaluation
Simulation evaluation in FluxVLA reconstructs a trained
experiment in closed loop rather than invoking a model
in isolation. Each rollout restores the policy and prepro-
cessing state, resets the benchmark to a controlled state,
coordinates inference with action execution, and records
episode outcomes. Because boundary mismatches can
change the measured success rate without changing the
model weights, benchmark-specific environment semantics
10


remain confined to registered evaluators that reuse shared
model and data contracts. Dedicated evaluators currently
support LIBERO [28] and RoboCasa [29]. Three prop-
erties define this design: faithful reconstruction of the
policy and evaluation setup from the selected checkpoint
and run-local artifacts; isolation of benchmark-specific in-
teraction within each evaluator; and preservation of task-,
trial-, and rollout-level evidence beyond aggregate metrics.
Figure 4 illustrates the resulting workflow, and Table 2
summarizes its shared contract and benchmark-specific
mechanisms.
Evaluation workflow reconstruction.
An evaluator
reconstructs the policy and evaluation setup associated
with a selected checkpoint from explicit configuration
and run-local artifacts, avoiding hidden defaults.
Se-
lected through the same registry as the training runner,
it resolves the inference model, online transform pipeline,
inverse action transform, benchmark protocol, and out-
put configuration. A configured inference-oriented im-
plementation may replace its training counterpart for
rollout (Section 3.6), provided strict checkpoint valida-
tion confirms state compatibility. The evaluator also uses
run-local dataset statistics to restore the training-time
normalization contract. Simulator creation and stepping
remain benchmark-specific, while model construction and
invocation continue through the common VLA interface;
this separation prevents LIBERO- or RoboCasa-specific
branches from propagating across model implementations.
Closed-loop rollout and execution horizon.
At the
beginning of an episode, the evaluator resets the environ-
ment and constructs an observation dictionary containing
the benchmark-provided sensor values and task instruc-
tion. The configured online dataset applies the ordered
transform pipeline described in Section 3.2, and the re-
sulting batch is passed to the policy for action prediction.
From each H-step prediction, the evaluator executes a
configurable K-step prefix, 1 ≤K ≤H, applying the
inverse normalization transform before each command
and checking for success or termination after every tran-
sition; the predict–execute cycle repeats until the episode
ends. Smaller prefixes improve reactivity, while longer
ones amortize inference. Because this schedule remains
outside the model, the same trained policy can be evalu-
ated under different closed-loop schedules and deployed
through the real-robot execution path (Section 3.5). In-
ference and training thus meet at the transformed batch
contract, and the simulator receives actions only after
their dataset-specific physical scale has been restored.
Benchmark integrations.
The two evaluators differ
in simulator semantics, not in how the policy is invoked.
LIBERO loads suite tasks and their benchmark-provided
initial states, cycling through the states across trials as
needed. It applies the suite-specific horizon and no-op
settling steps and clears temporal observation history
at episode boundaries. After inverse normalization, its
action vector is passed directly to the environment.
RoboCasa GR-1 Tabletop instead uses a 29-D action
interface for the GR-1 embodiment. The evaluator trun-
cates the policy output to its 29 active dimensions and
partitions it into 7-D left-arm, 6-D left-hand, 7-D right-
arm, 6-D right-hand, and 3-D waist entries. The evaluator
supports the native FluxVLA order and the order used
by the official GR00T N1.5 path; an unrecognized conven-
tion fails at construction time, and the selected convention
must match the training data. Grouped normalization
statistics can be selected according to the task group.
In both cases the benchmark-specific behavior ends at
the evaluator: the model receives the same transformed
batch contract, and the data pipeline defines the same
physical meaning of states and actions. Checks such as
action-order validation encode semantic assumptions that
tensor-shape validation alone cannot detect and therefore
belong to the evaluator rather than the model.
Distributed execution and auditable artifacts.
Both evaluators treat task–trial episodes as independent
work units and shard them across distributed ranks by
episode for load balance or by task to amortize expensive
initialization. Distributed reductions aggregate total and
per-task episode and success counts together with dura-
tions. Determinism remains benchmark-specific: Robo-
Casa derives per-episode environment seeds and per-step
action-sampling seeds when its deterministic modes are
enabled, while LIBERO combines stored initial states
with global and inference seed controls. Rank logs, struc-
tured summaries, per-task results, and optional rollout
videos connect aggregate success rates to individual be-
haviors and preserve the task, trial, scheduling, and visual
evidence required for audit.
3.5
Real-robot inference
Real-robot deployment introduces boundaries that are
absent from offline training and partially represented by
simulation. Observations arrive from independent sensor
processes, commands must match an embodiment-specific
controller, and model latency competes directly with the
robot control schedule. FluxVLA addresses these difficul-
ties by separating the policy-side inference runner from the
hardware-facing operator. The runner owns the realtime
sensor stream, model restoration, task state selection, and
action-chunk prediction. The operator owns timestamped
sensor acquisition and then transport action trajectories
to command the robot. Consequently, FluxVLA can
reuse the same trained model and preprocessing configu-
ration while adapting only the robot-specific observation
and actuation interfaces.
A four-stage runner contract.
FluxVLA defines
real-robot inference as a four-stage control loop: obser-
vation preprocessing, action prediction, action postpro-
11


Figure 4: Closed-loop simulation evaluation in FluxVLA. A registered evaluator reconstructs the policy and evaluation
setup from the selected checkpoint and run-local artifacts. For each episode, benchmark observations pass through
the configured online transform pipeline, the VLA predicts an H-step action chunk, and the first K actions are
inverse-normalized and sent either directly to LIBERO or through the 29-D embodiment mapping for RoboCasa GR-1
Tabletop. Benchmark-defined reset, observation, and action semantics remain confined to the evaluator. Independent
task–trial episodes are sharded across ranks, reduced into aggregate and per-task metrics, and retained with structured
summaries, rank logs, per-task results, and optional rollout videos.
cessing, and trajectory execution. The runner maintains
deployment state, including control timing, action chunk
buffer, and optional temporal context, so the policy in-
terface remains focused on action generation. The same
contract is used for both local and remote inference: local
execution runs the model on the robot client computer,
whereas remote execution sends observations to an accel-
erated server and receives executable actions. This shared
contract keeps observation and action semantics consistent
across simulation, local deployment, and remote serving.
Synchronized observation acquisition.
Real-robot
observations come from multiple sensor processes with dif-
ferent rates and communication delays. Simply taking the
latest message from each stream can mix measurements
from different physical states, producing an inconsistent
model input. FluxVLA therefore treats timestamp align-
ment as part of the hardware-facing boundary rather than
as a policy responsibility.
The operator synchronizes sensor messages by times-
tamp, maintains a bounded buffer of valid observations,
and monitors availability, freshness, and update rate.
Missing, stale, or poorly aligned inputs are reported explic-
itly before they reach the policy. After synchronization,
the observation is converted into the canonical model-
input format, while the runner maintains any fixed obser-
vation history required by temporal policies. This keeps
frame synchronization and hardware-specific representa-
tions outside the policy while preserving the preprocessing
assumptions used during training.
Embodiment-aware action execution.
Policy out-
puts follow the action representation used during training,
whereas robot controllers use embodiment-specific com-
mand spaces, dimension orderings, control rates, and
gripper conventions. FluxVLA assigns this translation
to the operator, which validates predicted action chunks,
converts them into executable command trajectories, and
dispatches them through a common interface for syn-
chronous or asynchronous execution. This design keeps
robot-specific conventions outside the policy, while low-
level safety remains the responsibility of the robot con-
troller.
Remote GPU inference.
The remote path decou-
ples the latency-sensitive robot process from the model
runtime through a ZeroMQ request-reply service. The
robot-side runner retains sensor acquisition, user inter-
action, preparation poses, and command publication. It
serializes raw observations with MessagePack or Protocol
12


Table 2: Shared contract and benchmark-specific mechanisms in simulation evaluation.
Concern
Shared contract
LIBERO integration
RoboCasa integration
Policy restoration
Configured inference model
restored from run-local weights
and statistics with strict
validation
Model-only weights preferred
when available; tokenizer assets
resolved from the run directory
when present
Optional checkpoint name
mapping and grouped statistics
Task and trial
definition
Configured task set, trial count,
and horizon
Suite tasks paired with stored
initial states; suite-specific
default horizons and settling
steps
Task-specific environments
instantiated from a configured
task list
Online input path
Observation and instruction
processed by the configured
evaluation dataset
Episode-reset flag; per-action or
per-query preprocessing
Environment-provided task
description
Action execution
First K of H predicted actions,
denormalized before execution
Denormalized vector passed
directly to the environment
Denormalized 29-D vector split
into arm, hand, and waist
entries under a selectable index
convention
Scheduling
Distribute independent rollouts
and aggregate counts and
durations across ranks
Episode sharding by default;
manager-controlled task
sharding is also available
Episode- or task-level sharding;
deterministic environment and
action-sampling seeds when
enabled
Buffers: selected RGB arrays may be JPEG-compressed,
other arrays are encoded as NumPy payloads, and strings
are sent directly. Each request contains an observation
and normalization key. The GPU server applies the online
transform, predicts and denormalizes the action, and then
responses serialized continuous actions.
The client profiles request serialization, ZMQ round-
trip, server-side inference, action deserialization, and total
latency, and estimates non-inference overhead from the
difference between round-trip and inference time. Because
the ZMQ service uses plain TCP without built-in authen-
tication or encryption, it should be restricted to a trusted
network or protected by an SSH tunnel.
Safety boundary.
The real-robot layer provides obser-
vation synchronization, dimensional and mode validation,
preparation commands, rate-controlled publishing, trajec-
tory cancellation, and graceful cleanup. Individual integra-
tions may expose additional safeguards or control hooks;
for example, the Tron2 operator forwards emergency-stop
requests, while Franka can fall back from unavailable
gripper action servers to a publisher interface. However,
FluxVLA does not itself implement collision avoidance,
workspace constraints, torque limits, or a certified emer-
gency controller. These protections must be enforced by
the robot SDK, low-level controller, and deployment pro-
cedure. A valid deployment therefore requires the dataset
action convention, normalization statistics, runner action
mode, operator command mode, active embodiment, and
hardware safety envelope to be consistently aligned.
3.6
Inference acceleration
VLA training implementations are designed to make exper-
imentation reliable: they expose clear module boundaries,
support gradient computation, and preserve architectural
flexibility. At deployment time, however, the limiting
factor shifts to action-prediction latency. Excessive in-
ference delay can make manipulator execution appear
discontinuous or sluggish, and can prevent the system
from handling highly dynamic tasks. Inference accelera-
tion is therefore a deployment requirement rather than a
cosmetic optimization. FluxVLA addresses this by al-
lowing the configuration to define an inference model that
remains structurally compatible with the trained model
while replacing selected modules, or the complete pre-
diction path, with an inference-oriented implementation.
The checkpoint remains unchanged: acceleration is a dif-
ferent execution graph over the same learned parameters,
not a separately trained policy. Figure 5 summarizes the
two code-level capture boundaries and the shared fused
execution stack.
Inference-model
substitution.
Model
selec-
tion
is
performed
before
checkpoint
restora-
tion.
For
GR00T-style
models,
the
optimized
path
retains
the
top-level
LlavaVLA
composition
but
substitutes
an
EagleInferenceBackbone
and
FlowMatchingInferenceHead for their training coun-
terparts.
For π0.5, the PI05FlowMatchingInference
class replaces the complete vision–language and action-
generation pipeline. Configured name mappings align the
13


Inference acceleration architecture
SAME CHECKPOINT > INFERENCE GRAPH > SAME ACTION CONTRACT
1  SUBSTITUTE THE EXECUTION GRAPH, NOT THE LEARNED POLICY
Policy checkpoint
checkpoint and resolved model mapping
Checkpoint loading
strictly load the learned parameters
Invariant runtime contract
images, language, state and noise
Chunk prediction
model prediction and transport
2  MODEL-SPECIFIC CAPTURE BOUNDARIES
GR00T accelerated path
LlavaVLA
EagleInferenceBackbone
optimized VLM features
FlowMatchingInferenceHead
functional weights + persistent buffers
Action
Model
prediction
CUDA Graph captures the repeated action-head denoising path
PI0.5 accelerated path
PI05FlowMatchingInference
SigLIPViT
BackboneInference
vision encoder
LinearProjector
Inference
multimodal projector
ConditionGemma
InferenceModel
LLM + expert
Action / time
projections
denoising loop
one CUDA Graph captures the entire vision-to-action pipeline
3  STATIC, FUSED GPU EXECUTION
Materialized state
weight dictionaries and fixed
maximum-shape buffers
Triton fused kernels
Attention / Matmul / Norm / Position
Embedding
CUDA custom ops
cublasLt GEMM+bias/residual and
applied rotary embedding
Warm-up + capture
populate stable addresses, run graph
warm-up and record
Replay
graph replay and fill action buffer
Static view count, prompt bound, action shape, precision, and denoising-step count define the captured graph.
First-call materialization and capture are separated from steady-state replay latency.
Figure 5: Inference acceleration in FluxVLA. The training checkpoint is restored into an explicitly configured inference
model with the same runner-facing action contract. The GR00T path substitutes an optimized Eagle backbone and
captures the functionalized flow-matching head, whereas the π0.5 path captures the complete vision–language–action
pipeline in a single CUDA Graph. Both paths use persistent buffers, Triton fusion, selected CUDA operators, warm-up
and capture, followed by steady-state graph replay.
checkpoint parameter paths with these inference modules,
and strict state loading exposes a missing or incompatible
mapping.
This arrangement keeps optimization local
to the model implementation: the simulation and robot
runners continue to call the same predict_action
interface.
Kernel fusion and functionalization.
The optimized
paths target small operations that become expensive when
they are repeated across many transformer layers and de-
noising iterations. The Triton normalization and matrix-
multiplication operators, together with parts of the op-
timized inference backbone, build on the open-source
Realtime-VLA implementation [32]. The operator library
includes fused residual addition and normalization, adap-
tive LayerNorm and RMSNorm, QKV projection with
rotary embedding, gated MLP projections with SiLU, ma-
trix multiplication with bias and activation, and in-place
position-embedding addition. These kernels combine oper-
ations that would otherwise allocate intermediate tensors
and launch separate GPU kernels.
Selected hotspots are implemented as custom CUDA
extensions when direct use of vendor primitives or a spe-
cialized memory layout is advantageous. The cublasLt-
based matrix multiplication path fuses GEMM, bias, and
an optional residual into one operation and accepts a
preallocated output tensor. Separate rotary kernels con-
struct Gemma sine/cosine embeddings and apply rotary
position encoding to query and key tensors. Above these
primitives, functional atomic operations explicitly receive
weights, buffers, and output locations rather than relying
on dynamically allocated intermediate module outputs.
Static buffers and CUDA Graphs.
CUDA Graph
replay requires stable memory addresses and a fixed ex-
ecution topology. The accelerated models therefore ma-
terialize weights and allocate buffers for the maximum
configured image, prompt, encoder, decoder, action, and
denoising dimensions. Runtime inputs are copied into
these persistent buffers; valid prompt length and related
masks indicate which portion contains data without chang-
ing the allocated shape. The first prediction performs
operator warm-up, synchronizes the device, captures the
graph, and stores it. Subsequent predictions update the
input and noise buffers and replay the same graph.
The scope of capture differs between the two princi-
pal implementations. FlowMatchingInferenceHead func-
tionalizes and captures the repeated GR00T action-head
computation after receiving VLM features. In contrast,
PI05FlowMatchingInference manually unrolls the vi-
14


Table 3: Layers of the accelerated inference path. The exact combination is model dependent; unsupported shapes or
operators fall outside the static captured path rather than being silently approximated.
Layer
Mechanism
Runtime effect
Model substitution
Configuration selects inference-specific
backbones, projectors, heads, or a complete VLA
class
Retains the training checkpoint while removing
training-oriented module paths
Functional execution
Weights and intermediate tensors are
materialized into explicit dictionaries and fixed
buffers
Reduces Python and nn.Module dispatch inside
repeated denoising steps
Triton fusion
Fused normalization, projection, activation,
attention, and position-embedding kernels
Avoids intermediate allocations and repeated
global-memory traffic
CUDA operators
Specialized cublasLt GEMM–bias/residual and
rotary-embedding kernels
Uses fused low-level implementations for selected
hot operations
CUDA Graph replay
Warm up and capture a fixed-shape GPU
execution sequence once
Replaces repeated host-side kernel submission
with graph replay
sion encoder, language-conditioned transformer encoder,
action expert, and denoising loop into one graph. Captur-
ing the full π0.5 pipeline avoids a host boundary between
the visual–language prefix and repeated action decoding,
but also requires fixed camera count, maximum prompt
length, chunk length, precision, and number of denoising
steps.
Numerical and configuration contract.
An opti-
mized backend is expected to preserve the policy’s exter-
nal behavior: it accepts the same transformed observation
semantics and returns the same continuous action layout.
It need not reproduce every floating-point operation bit
for bit. Fused kernels, bfloat16 arithmetic, and reordered
reductions can produce small differences from eager Py-
Torch, so backend validation should compare action-space
error and trajectory or task behavior in addition to model-
loading success. The training model remains the reference
path, and the inference model is an explicit configuration
choice rather than an automatic global replacement.
Static capture also creates constraints that must remain
visible. Inputs cannot exceed the allocated prompt or
sequence bounds, and changes to the number of views, ac-
tion horizon, action width, denoising-step count, or model
structure may require rematerialization and recapture.
The first-call warm-up and graph recording cost must
be excluded or reported separately from steady-state la-
tency. Likewise, model frequency is not end-to-end control
frequency: image acquisition, preprocessing, host–device
copies, remote transport, denormalization, and robot com-
mand scheduling remain outside some captured regions.
For this reason, FluxVLA exposes acceleration through
the same runner and profiling boundaries used by deploy-
ment rather than treating an isolated kernel benchmark
as the complete runtime result.
3.7
Real-Time Chunking
Action chunking reduces how often a VLA must be queried,
but it introduces a temporal coordination problem. Sup-
pose a policy predicts ˆAi = (ˆai
0, . . . , ˆai
H−1) and the robot
begins executing it while the next observation is processed.
When prediction and execution overlap, part of a newly
generated action chunk may already be outdated by the
time it becomes available. The execution layer therefore
schedules only temporally valid actions, while RTC fur-
ther conditions the next prediction on the portion of the
previous chunk that remains active.
Timing-aware scheduling prevents stale commands from
being replayed, but it does not ensure continuity between
successive predictions. Independently generating the new
chunk can still produce an abrupt transition even when
both chunks are individually plausible. Real-Time Chunk-
ing (RTC) treats temporally overlapping actions from
the previous chunk as an inpainting target: commands
guaranteed to execute are fixed, while later overlapping
actions receive decaying consistency guidance [30].
In this report, Training-time RTC and Test-time
RTC name two complete routes rather than two manda-
tory stages of one procedure. Training-time RTC pairs
simulated-delay conditioning during training with prefix
conditioning during inference [31].
The original Test-
time RTC method leaves model training unchanged and
applies vector–Jacobian-product (VJP) guidance during
inference [30]. FluxVLA additionally implements a lower-
cost direct approximation to that guidance.
Runtime alignment of successive chunks.
RTC
aligns the previous raw action chunk with the time of the
next query. Let tref denote the time origin of the previous
chunk’s first sample and ∆t the command period. The
15


Table 4: Training- and inference-stage mechanisms of the RTC routes implemented in FluxVLA.
RTC route
Training stage
Inference stage
Training-time RTC
Simulated-delay conditioning. Expose a
clean known-action prefix during training [31]
Prefix conditioning. Keep the aligned
prefix fixed throughout denoising
Test-time RTC (VJP)
No RTC-specific training
VJP guidance. Differentiate the
prefix-consistency error through the
denoiser [30]
Test-time RTC (direct)
No RTC-specific training
Direct guidance. Add the weighted prefix
error directly to the predicted velocity
elapsed offset is
δ = tquery −tref
∆t
,
which may be fractional. The runner therefore linearly
resamples the remaining trajectory from δ and clamps
the requested prefix length L to the available suffix. The
resulting prefix refers to the commands that remain rel-
evant on the control timeline rather than to stale array
positions. The execution horizon controls when a new
query is issued, whereas L controls how much overlap
conditions that query.
Training-time RTC.
Its training-stage mechanism is
simulated-delay conditioning [31]. For each batch
element, the implementation samples a simulated delay d,
interpreted as the length of a known action prefix. The
first d action positions are therefore the known-prefix
positions. Let m(d) mark these positions, j < d. Their
per-position diffusion or flow time is replaced by the
model’s clean-time value, and their reconstruction loss is
masked:
t′
j =
(
tclean,
j < d,
t,
j ≥d,
˜mj = mj 1{j≥d}.
This construction exposes the model to a clean known pre-
fix while asking it to predict only the unknown suffix. The
implementation accounts for differing time conventions:
the clean endpoint is 1 for the GR00T flow head and 0
for the π0/π0.5 convention. With a configured maximum
delay D, the implementation samples d ∈{0, . . . , D −1};
the upper bound is exclusive. The simulated-delay dis-
tribution and exponential temperature are likewise con-
figuration parameters rather than fixed properties of the
training runner.
Its inference-stage mechanism is prefix conditioning.
It initializes the first L positions with the aligned previ-
ous actions, restores them after every denoising update,
and provides a clean-time encoding for those positions.
Reapplying the constraint after the final step ensures that
the returned overlap exactly matches the prefix. Pre-
fix conditioning remains executable without the matched
training procedure, but here Training-time RTC de-
notes the paired use of simulated-delay conditioning and
prefix-conditioned inference.
Test-time RTC.
Test-time RTC leaves model training
unchanged and applies RTC guidance only during infer-
ence. It defines a position weight wj that is one over the
locked prefix and decays toward zero over a configurable
region after the boundary. Given a current noisy action xt,
predicted velocity vt, and implied clean estimate ˆx1, the
method forms a prefix error against the aligned previous
actions.
The original method differentiates this error through
the denoiser and applies the resulting vector–Jacobian
product as a velocity correction [30]. This incorporates
the denoiser’s local Jacobian but enables gradients during
inference and adds compute and memory cost. FluxVLA
also provides a lower-cost direct approximation that adds
the weighted prefix error to the predicted velocity without
differentiating through the denoiser. This direct path is an
implementation-specific simplification, not a method at-
tributed to the cited work. Exponential, linear, constant-
one, and zero decay schedules are available for the pre-
fix weights, together with a maximum guidance weight.
Training-time RTC and Test-time RTC remain alternative
routes: a single query uses either prefix conditioning or
guidance, not both.
Interaction with accelerated inference.
RTC must
not invalidate the fixed-shape assumptions of CUDA
Graph replay.
The accelerated GR00T head there-
fore allocates prefix-action, prefix-mask, and prefix-
timestep buffers before capture. Each query clears and
fills the relevant prefix region in place, while the cap-
tured graph always executes over the same full shapes.
PI05FlowMatchingRTCInference similarly extends the
whole-pipeline captured graph with prefix-aware decoder
attention and in-place prefill buffers. Both accelerated
implementations currently support the prefix-conditioning
mechanism used by Training-time RTC. Both the original
VJP guidance and the direct approximation remain on the
eager model paths: their dynamic corrections are not part
of the captured execution graph, and the VJP method
16


additionally requires gradients during inference.
Both RTC routes couple runner-side temporal align-
ment with a model-side denoising intervention. Training-
time RTC adds simulated-delay conditioning during train-
ing and enforces the aligned prefix during inference. Test-
time RTC instead applies guidance to an ordinarily trained
flow policy. In both cases, a prefix without temporal align-
ment may be stale, and faster inference reduces but does
not by itself remove cross-chunk discontinuity.
3.8
Trajectory Post-processing
RTC improves temporal consistency while an action chunk
is being generated, but a prediction that is consistent
with its predecessor is not necessarily ready for direct
execution. A raw robot-space trajectory may still contain
local oscillations, imply excessive velocity, acceleration,
or jerk, or meet the previous chunk with an undesirable
change in higher-order motion. These properties depend
on the robot controller and command rate rather than
only on the policy distribution.
FluxVLA therefore
exposes trajectory post-processing as an optional runner-
side stage between action denormalization and command
execution.
The post-processing interface receives a timestamped
trajectory containing positions and, when available, ve-
locities and accelerations. It operates only on configured
continuous degrees of freedom; discrete or mode-like chan-
nels such as gripper and suction commands remain outside
the continuous optimizer and retain their embodiment-
specific handling. The result preserves the original action
layout and horizon so that the downstream operator con-
tract is unchanged. This placement also keeps execution
constraints independent of the VLA architecture and ap-
plies equally to locally and remotely predicted action
chunks. The configuration separates three decisions: how
the trajectory is generated, what terminal behavior is
desired, and whether an active previous trajectory must
be stitched to the new one. Table 5 summarizes these or-
thogonal axes rather than treating their individual choices
as interchangeable methods.
Joint-space finite-horizon optimization.
The joint-
space model predictive control (MPC) backend treats
the denormalized policy output ˆq0:H−1 as a reference
trajectory. For each continuous joint, it optimizes posi-
tion, velocity, acceleration, and jerk over the fixed action
horizon. In a simplified vector notation, the objective is
min
q,v,a,j
wtrk
H−1
X
t=0
∥qt −ˆqt∥2
2
+ λ∥z∥2
2
+ wterm∥qH−1 −ˆqH−1∥2
2
+ wstop∥vH−1∥2
2,
where z collects the optimized trajectory variables. The
tracking term is active in both modes, while the terminal-
position and terminal-velocity terms provide the soft set-
tling bias when requested.
The optimization obeys a
discrete triple-integrator model,
qt+1 = qt + ∆t vt,
vt+1 = vt + ∆t at,
at+1 = at + ∆t jt,
with the initial state anchored to the aligned execution
state and box constraints on velocity, acceleration, and
jerk. The resulting quadratic program is separable across
joints and is solved with OSQP [33]. The FluxVLA
backend reuses one solver per joint and executes the in-
dependent problems in parallel. This is an execution-
side kinematic trajectory optimizer: it does not model
coupled robot dynamics, torque, collision, or workspace
constraints, which remain outside its guarantee.
Jerk-limited filtering.
Ruckig provides online trajec-
tory generation under velocity, acceleration, and jerk con-
straints [34]. The FluxVLA backend uses it as a second
realization of the post-processing contract, advancing a
feasible trajectory toward successive policy targets rather
than optimizing tracking error over the complete horizon.
This construction makes higher-order bounds direct and
computationally light, but it can introduce reference lag
because each update prioritizes feasible motion from the
current kinematic state. In tracking mode the fixed-length
result follows the rolling command stream. In settle mode
the generator may continue beyond the final reference to
approach rest and then resample the result to the policy
horizon. Because temporal resampling changes deriva-
tives, limits must be verified again whenever an extended
settle trajectory is compressed to a fixed output length.
Current backend scope and extensibility.
Both
backends operate independently on each selected joint.
They share the chunk timestamps and horizon, but do not
introduce cross-joint costs or coupled constraints. This
joint-separable design keeps the optimization small, per-
mits parallel execution, and is sufficient in the evaluated
setting to obtain a practical balance between reference
precision and smoothness when velocity, acceleration, and
jerk bounds are chosen for the robot. Joint MPC favors
closer tracking of the policy reference, whereas Ruckig
favors lower processing latency and direct jerk-limited
generation.
Joint separability is a property of the provided backends,
not a restriction of the post-processing boundary.
A
new implementation may instead optimize coupled joints,
operate in Cartesian space, enforce embodiment-specific
constraints, fit splines, or apply another filtering rule. To
reuse the runner and operator paths, it must consume the
timestamped robot-space trajectory and selected action
channels, preserve the declared action layout, and return a
trajectory whose timing and horizon are explicit. Backend-
specific parameters and validity checks remain visible in
the post-processing configuration.
17


Table 5: Orthogonal configuration axes of trajectory post-processing. A deployment selects one backend and one
execution mode, then independently enables stitching when cross-chunk boundary alignment is required.
Configuration axis
Choices
Responsibility
Selection criterion
Trajectory-processing
backend
Joint-separable MPC or
Ruckig filter
Convert a policy reference into
a trajectory satisfying the
selected higher-order motion
limits
Horizon-level tracking fidelity
versus lower post-processing
latency and reference lag
Execution mode
Tracking or settle
Determine whether the
processed trajectory should
preserve rolling motion or
approach its final target and
rest
Asynchronous repeated
replanning versus synchronous
execution of a self-contained
segment
Boundary handling
Stitching enabled or disabled
Reuse a time-aligned prefix
from the previously processed
trajectory before solving the
new suffix
Whether a new chunk replaces
a trajectory that is still being
executed
Cross-chunk stitching.
Post-processing retains the
previously processed trajectory together with its start
time and command period. When a new chunk arrives
during asynchronous execution, the runner samples that
trajectory at the timestamps assigned to the beginning of
the new chunk. The first S samples are copied as a stitch
prefix, and optimization begins from the position, velocity,
and acceleration at the stitch boundary. The assembled
result consists of this time-aligned bridge followed by
the newly optimized suffix. Thus stitching follows the
trajectory scheduled for execution rather than treating
each policy output as an isolated motion segment.
Relationship to RTC.
RTC and trajectory post-
processing are sequential rather than competing mecha-
nisms. RTC acts inside the policy query: it conditions
the next normalized action chunk on the unexecuted part
of the previous raw prediction. The result is then denor-
malized and passed to trajectory post-processing, which
applies joint-space bounds and, when enabled, stitches
it to the previously processed trajectory. The operator
executes only this final robot-space trajectory.
This ordering gives the two stages distinct guarantees.
RTC reduces the change introduced when the policy gen-
erates a new chunk, but does not bound velocity, accel-
eration, or jerk after denormalization. Post-processing
regularizes the executable command, but does not change
how the policy represents or generates the unknown suffix.
Either stage can be used alone. When both are enabled,
RTC provides a more consistent reference for the post-
processor, while stitching connects that reference to the
trajectory actually sent to the robot. The runner includes
prediction and post-processing delay when discarding stale
samples before execution.
Configuration and operational boundary.
The run-
ner selects the backend, tracking or settle mode, con-
tinuous action indices, stitch length, motion limits, and
objective weights through a post-processing configuration
block. Tracking with stitching is the natural choice for
rolling asynchronous inference, whereas settle mode is
intended for synchronous execution of a self-contained
segment. These settings are part of the embodiment con-
tract rather than universal model hyperparameters: the
same numerical limit can have different physical meaning
under joint-position, end-effector, or whole-body control.
The downstream robot controller must retain clipping,
collision checking, emergency stopping, and other safety
interlocks; trajectory post-processing improves command
regularity but is not a certified safety controller.
4
Extensibility through Stable Con-
tracts
Section 3 described how a complete FluxVLA experiment
moves from data to training, evaluation, and deployment.
This chapter instead examines the interfaces that allow
that workflow to be extended without rewriting it. The
central design choice is to stabilize the boundaries be-
tween components rather than impose one implementation
on every policy or robot. A dataset may change its stor-
age backend, a VLA may replace its action decoder, and
a robot may use a different middleware stack, provided
that each component continues to satisfy the contract at
the boundary it crosses.
A contract in this context has four parts: a construc-
tion rule, an exchanged data structure, lifecycle ownership,
and an explicit extension point. Registries and configu-
ration determine how an object is constructed. Sample
and output dictionaries define what adjacent components
exchange. Runners determine when resources are initial-
18


ized, used, checkpointed, and released. Operators isolate
the communication and actuation details that should not
enter the policy implementation. These contracts are
intentionally narrower than semantic compatibility: the
fact that two objects can be constructed from the same
registry does not guarantee that their tensor shapes, tem-
poral semantics, or optimization assumptions agree. The
configuration author is responsible for selecting compati-
ble components, while the framework makes the selection
visible and localizes the required adaptation.
4.1
Abstraction hierarchy and extension
boundaries
The abstraction hierarchy follows the ownership structure
of an experiment. A launcher constructs a dataset and a
runner. The dataset owns its ordered transform pipeline;
the runner owns the model, collator, metric, optimizer,
scheduler, and optional evaluator. The model in turn
owns its vision, language, integrated VLM, projector, and
action-head modules. During physical execution, an infer-
ence runner owns policy-side temporal logic and delegates
hardware I/O to an operator. This ownership hierarchy
is more than an implementation detail: it identifies the
component that must validate a nested configuration and
the component whose lifecycle controls the nested object.
This structure creates two kinds of extension bound-
ary. A horizontal boundary replaces one implementation
within a family, such as one image transform with another
or one evaluator with another. A vertical boundary in-
troduces a new owner that composes existing lower-level
modules, such as a new VLA class that combines a reg-
istered VLM backbone with an action head. Horizontal
replacement is usually configuration-only when the seman-
tic contract is unchanged. Vertical extension normally
requires a small amount of Python code because the owner
must define how its children interact.
The hierarchy also prevents configuration from becom-
ing an unstructured dependency injection mechanism.
Nested modules are not built globally and then passed
to arbitrary consumers. Instead, each owner invokes the
category-specific builder for the children it understands.
For example, a dataset interprets its transform list in or-
der, a VLA decides how backbone features enter an action
head, and a runner decides when to create the optimizer.
This keeps semantic knowledge near the code that can
validate it and limits the effect of a new integration on
unrelated workflows.
4.2
Configuration and construction con-
tract
Robotic learning systems often couple component selec-
tion with task-specific control logic, making it difficult to
reuse implementations or introduce new models without
modifying the overall workflow. FluxVLA addresses this
problem through registry-based construction: data pro-
cessing, model, optimization, evaluation, and deployment
components are exposed through a common interface and
selected declaratively from configuration.
A unified hierarchical configuration describes both the
component graph and the relationships among its parts.
The framework constructs the requested modules recur-
sively, allowing model backbones, action heads, preprocess-
ing operations, training strategies, and execution backends
to be replaced or recombined without introducing model-
specific branches into the launcher. Invalid or unavailable
components are detected during construction, making in-
tegration errors explicit rather than silently falling back
to unintended behavior.
This modularity does not imply that arbitrary compo-
nents are automatically compatible. Components must
still agree on their semantic contracts, including input
fields, feature dimensions, temporal horizons, and action
representations. The configuration therefore serves as an
executable specification of the complete system rather
than merely a collection of hyperparameters.
By preserving the resolved configuration together with
the trained model, FluxVLA can reconstruct the same
component composition and preprocessing semantics dur-
ing evaluation and deployment. This design improves
reproducibility while reducing inconsistencies between
training, simulation, serving, and physical-robot execu-
tion.
4.3
Data contract
Robot datasets and online observations often differ in stor-
age layout, field names, sensor organization, and action
representation. Directly exposing these differences to the
model would couple each policy to a particular dataset
or deployment platform. FluxVLA instead defines a
semantic, dictionary-based boundary between the data
and model layers.
Both offline trajectories and live observations are con-
verted to this boundary through configurable transform
sequences. The data layer constructs the required tem-
poral context while respecting episode boundaries, and
the transforms progressively canonicalize, decode, normal-
ize, augment, and encode the sample. Each policy can
therefore request the modalities and representations it
requires without imposing a single tensor layout on all
model families.
The contract is intentionally extensible. New observa-
tions, embodiment descriptors, validity information, or
auxiliary supervision can be introduced without chang-
ing unrelated components, while explicit batching rules
prevent fields from being silently discarded or interpreted
incorrectly. Models remain independent of the original
storage format and whether samples originate from a
single source or a mixture of datasets.
Training and inference may use different acquisition
paths, but they preserve the same model-facing semantics
and preprocessing conventions. In particular, normaliza-
19


tion, modality ordering, and action interpretation remain
coupled to the trained policy. This shared contract re-
duces discrepancies between offline training, simulation
evaluation, remote serving, and physical-robot deploy-
ment.
4.4
Model contract
VLA architectures differ substantially in how they com-
bine visual, linguistic, proprioceptive, and temporal infor-
mation. Coupling the training and deployment infrastruc-
ture to these internal choices would require a separate ex-
ecution path for every model family. FluxVLA therefore
treats the top-level policy as the model-side integration
boundary, behind which architecture-specific components
and algorithms can be implemented independently.
During training, a policy consumes the semantic batch
produced by the data pipeline and returns a primary
optimization objective together with optional diagnostic
quantities. During inference, it maps the processed obser-
vations and task specification to an action or action se-
quence. This compact interface allows the same execution
stack to support autoregressive policies, continuous-action
generative policies, and world–action models despite their
different prediction procedures.
The shared external contract does not require models
to expose identical internal structures. Some policies pro-
vide clear boundaries between multimodal representation
learning and action generation, whereas others tightly
couple token generation, dynamics prediction, or iterative
action sampling. FluxVLA allows compatible backbones,
projectors, and action modules to be composed where ap-
propriate, while preserving specialized implementations
when the underlying algorithm requires stronger coupling.
Modular construction therefore guarantees a common
integration mechanism rather than unrestricted inter-
changeability. Components must still agree on feature
structure, temporal semantics, conditioning information,
and action representation. By making these boundaries
explicit, FluxVLA supports model extension without
hiding the mathematical assumptions of individual policy
families.
Finally, the model contract includes a complete and
transferable trained state. The architecture can be re-
constructed from the saved experiment specification and
restored from the corresponding model artifact without
separately recovering its original initialization weights.
This provides a consistent handoff from training to evalu-
ation, serving, and physical-robot deployment.
4.5
Execution lifecycle and deployment
contract
A model defines how actions are predicted, but it does
not specify how an experiment is initialized, distributed,
evaluated, or connected to a robot. Embedding these
responsibilities in individual policies would duplicate in-
frastructure and tightly couple model development to
execution details. FluxVLA therefore uses runners as
the orchestration boundary between model computation
and complete executable workflows.
Runners follow a common lifecycle that covers initializa-
tion, repeated execution, artifact production, and resource
release. Training runners coordinate optimization and
checkpointing, evaluation runners manage environment
interaction and metric aggregation, and inference runners
maintain the temporal state required for continuous con-
trol. This separation allows the same policy interface to
be used across training, simulation, local inference, and
remote serving without requiring the model to manage
workflow-specific state.
Explicit resource ownership also provides a clean bound-
ary between successive stages. In particular, training can
release its distributed and computational state before
evaluation begins, while the produced model artifact is
transferred to a fresh evaluation process. This design
supports a reliable train–evaluate lifecycle and prevents
residual training state from affecting subsequent evalua-
tion or deployment.
Physical deployment introduces an additional bound-
ary between model-facing semantics and hardware-specific
communication. FluxVLA separates these responsibili-
ties between the inference runner and the operator. The
runner manages preprocessing, prediction, optional tra-
jectory post-processing, execution timing, action chunks,
and RTC or trajectory-stitching state. The operator ac-
quires and synchronizes sensor observations, translates
them into the framework representation, and delivers
commands through the robot’s communication interface.
This division keeps temporal policy logic independent
of a particular robot platform while allowing the same
operator abstraction to support different models and serv-
ing modes. Observation, prediction, and communication
failures are propagated explicitly so that the surrounding
workflow can stop, retry, or recover without fabricating
valid inputs. Hardware safety mechanisms and low-level
control constraints remain the responsibility of the robot
controller and deployment environment.
4.6
Extension recipes
The contracts above reduce common integrations to three
bounded recipes.
Each recipe begins by choosing the
narrowest extension point that preserves the existing se-
mantics; a new top-level runner or model should not be
introduced when a transform or adapter is sufficient.
Adding a dataset.
First, convert the source trajecto-
ries to the common Parquet-oriented episode layout when
possible, or implement a registered dataset that yields
temporally valid sample dictionaries. Second, define field
mappings, observation and action horizons, dataset/group
statistics, and an ordered list of registered transforms that
produces the keys expected by the target model. Third,
20


Table 6: Responsibility split at the real-robot boundary. The runner owns policy execution and temporal state, while
the operator owns hardware-facing communication and command transport.
Inference runner
Operator
Construct the model or remote client and load run-local
artifacts
Initialize robot middleware and vendor communication
Maintain observations, instructions, action chunks,
timestamps, RTC context, and trajectory-stitching state
Acquire and synchronize sensors and maintain frame queues
Invoke prediction, convert outputs to robot-space actions, and
optionally post-process continuous trajectories
Publish joint, end-effector, gripper, head, or whole-body
commands
Decide when a chunk is replaced, truncated, stitched, or
canceled
Execute and stop trajectories and report their active state
Release model-side, serving-client, and temporal state
Release communication resources, subscribers, queues, and
threads
classify every final field in the configured collator, stacking
tensor fields and preserving required metadata. Finally,
inspect samples at episode boundaries and verify that
normalization followed by denormalization recovers the
intended physical action convention. No change to the
training loop is required when the resulting batch already
satisfies the model contract.
Adding a model.
First, determine whether the inte-
gration is a new composition of existing modules or a
new algorithmic owner. Register reusable backbones, pro-
jectors, or heads separately only when their interfaces
are meaningful outside one model. Implement a top-level
VLA that builds its children, defines forward, returns a
scalar loss, exposes predict_action, and supplies an
FSDP wrapping policy when distributed training is re-
quired. Then define the model-specific transforms and
collator keys, state/action dimensions, temporal horizon,
and checkpoint name mapping. Validate construction, one
forward and backward step, checkpoint reload, and action
prediction before attaching the model to benchmark or
robot runners.
Adding a robot.
First, implement or reuse an oper-
ator that synchronizes the necessary camera and state
streams and provides the required command transports.
Preserve source timestamps and define the logical observa-
tion names consumed by the online data pipeline. Second,
implement the narrow robot-specific runner methods that
assemble the observation window and execute denormal-
ized actions; reuse the base preprocessing, prediction, post-
processing, serving, and cleanup paths. Third, configure
state and action dimensions, camera order, control repre-
sentation, publish rate, action chunk, execution horizon,
statistics key, and any optional trajectory post-processing
settings. Before closed-loop policy execution, validate
observation freshness, normalization, command signs and
units, trajectory cancellation, and external safety inter-
locks with a non-learning command sequence.
Together, these recipes illustrate the purpose of stable
contracts in FluxVLA. Extensibility does not mean that
every component can be combined with every other com-
ponent. It means that incompatibilities are expressed at
a small number of reviewable boundaries, and that a com-
patible new dataset, model, execution backend, or robot
can reuse the remainder of the system without copying
its training and deployment infrastructure.
5
Experimental Evaluation
The preceding chapters describe the mechanisms by which
FluxVLA unifies VLA training and deployment. This
chapter asks whether the released system provides corre-
sponding empirical evidence. For an engineering platform,
evaluation must cover more than the highest task-success
number. It should establish that heterogeneous policy
families can execute through the common stack, that
closed-loop performance remains competitive after inte-
gration, that runtime optimizations improve execution
without changing the intended computation, that trajec-
tory post-processing can be integrated with asynchronous
chunk execution at measurable runtime cost, and that the
deployment path reaches physical robots under explicit
operational contracts.
The current evidence has three different levels of prove-
nance. First, the source tree itself provides auditable
configurations, component registrations, tests, evaluators,
checkpoint conventions, and robot runners. Second, the
project reports simulation and inference measurements
together with five-task ALOHA and three-task Oli bench-
marks. Third, a companion study reports a quantitative
real-robot result obtained with the platform. We keep
these levels separate throughout the chapter. Values tran-
scribed from project documentation are labeled project-
21


reported; they are not presented as independently rerun
measurements. Likewise, the existence of a robot operator
is treated as integration coverage, not as evidence of task
success.
5.1
Evaluation
We evaluate FluxVLA along three dimensions corre-
sponding to its primary system objectives.
Closed-loop effectiveness.
We evaluate whether poli-
cies integrated through FluxVLA retain reliable task-
level performance on representative simulation bench-
marks under the shared training and evaluation pipeline.
Runtime
efficiency.
We
measure
the
inference-
frequency improvements provided by the optimized exe-
cution paths, verify their numerical consistency with the
corresponding reference implementations, and measure
the host-side latency added by the trajectory-processing
backends.
Deployment capability.
We assess the extent to which
the unified execution stack supports end-to-end physical
deployment, including the combined RTC and trajectory-
processing path, and distinguish quantitative closed-loop
results from integration and demonstration coverage.
FluxVLA is a system framework rather than a new
policy-learning algorithm. Accordingly, the experiments
focus on integration coverage, execution correctness, run-
time efficiency, and deployment readiness. Direct com-
parisons between policy families would require matched
architectures, pretraining data, optimization budgets, and
evaluation protocols beyond the scope of this work.
5.2
Evaluation protocol
Our evaluation covers three complementary aspects of
FluxVLA: closed-loop policy performance in simulation,
inference efficiency, and deployment on physical robots.
Quantitative results are reported only when the corre-
sponding model, evaluation configuration, and benchmark
protocol are available. Implementations without complete
evaluation records are presented as evidence of integration
coverage rather than policy performance.
Simulation.
We use task success rate as the primary
closed-loop metric. On LIBERO, results are reported
over the commonly used Spatial, Object, Goal, and Long
(libero_10) suites. The first three emphasize controlled
changes in spatial relations, object identities, and goal
specifications, while the Long suite contains ten longer-
horizon tasks drawn from LIBERO-100
[28].
Under
the project-specific RoboCasa GR-1 protocol, results are
grouped into trained-task categories and a generalization
set; the tasks are instantiated in the RoboCasa envi-
ronment family [29]. Success rates are aggregated from
task-level rollouts under the reported protocol for each
integration. For GPT-6, resource constraints limit eval-
uation to five episodes per task, giving 50 episodes for
each ten-task suite and 200 episodes in total.
These
limited-sample estimates are reported separately from the
checkpoint-based results rather than assumed to use a
matched evaluation budget.
Inference efficiency.
We report model inference la-
tency and its corresponding execution frequency. Baseline
and optimized implementations are compared using the
same model, hardware, precision, and input configura-
tion. These measurements isolate the model execution
path and should not be interpreted as end-to-end robot
control frequency, which additionally includes sensing,
preprocessing, communication, and command execution.
We also verify numerical consistency with the reference
implementation to ensure that acceleration does not alter
the intended model computation.
Real-robot evaluation.
The ALOHA benchmark re-
ports successful trials for two deformable-object folding
tasks and three pick-and-place tasks. Each policy is eval-
uated for 20 trials per task, except for the second folding
task, which uses 30 trials; overall success is the total
number of successes divided by all 110 trials. The Oli
benchmark covers stationary candy picking, four-stage
box transport, and mobile basket-and-toy picking. For
box transport, we distinguish cumulative completion of
stages 1–3 from full completion of all four stages; the
former is an intermediate milestone rather than full task
success. The companion ARM study follows a separate
task and evaluation protocol, so its results are reported in-
dependently. Configurations and demonstrations without
trial outcomes establish deployment compatibility rather
than success rates.
For reproducibility, benchmark assets, evaluation set-
tings, random seeds, action horizons, and checkpoint-
selection rules should remain fixed within each comparison.
We provide the associated configurations, checkpoints, and
evaluation entry points whenever available, enabling the
reported experiments to be reproduced without relying
on implementation-specific assumptions.
5.3
Simulation benchmark results
Table 7 reports fourteen integrations: thirteen checkpoint-
based policies spanning compact VLA, pretrained flow-
matching, modular VLM/action-head, and world–action
architectures, plus an inference-only GPT-6 API pol-
icy. Average success ranges from 37.50% for GPT-6 to
98.65% for DiT4DiT; eleven integrations exceed 95%,
and the highest Long-suite result is 98.0% for Cosmos3-
Nano. These results demonstrate shared evaluation across
heterogeneous policy implementations, not a controlled
leaderboard: pretraining, optimization, checkpoint selec-
tion, control interfaces, and evaluation budgets are not
22


matched across rows.
The suite-level pattern is also informative. SmolVLA’s
largest reduction is on the Long suite, while several larger
or generative integrations retain strong performance there.
By contrast, the Object suite is at or above 98.8 for eight
reported integrations. This suggests that the evaluation
path is not saturated uniformly across task types, al-
though identifying the cause would require matched train-
ing budgets and per-task outcomes. The table reports
uncertainty only for the three Long entries that include it
in the source record; the absence of an interval elsewhere
must not be read as zero variance.
Table 8 extends the evaluation beyond LIBERO and
exposes a more challenging regime. Across the eight re-
ported integrations, average success ranges from 8.75% for
SmolVLA to 57.25% for DiT4DiT. GR00T N1.5, trained
with 30 demonstrations per task, reports 44.30%, while
GR00T N1.7, trained on the full dataset, reports 46.42%.
FastWAM reaches 49.92% overall and 50.00% on the Gen-
eralization group. The full-data π0, π0.5, and DiT4DiT
integrations report 51.00%, 51.42%, and 57.25%, respec-
tively.
These values are not a controlled architecture
comparison because the data budgets, model initializa-
tion, and optimization procedures are not matched, and
the source does not report per-task uncertainty.
These results demonstrate strong closed-loop LIBERO
performance for multiple checkpoint-based policy families
and extend the shared FluxVLA evaluation pipeline to
an API-hosted controller. They also validate the Robo-
Casa GR-1 evaluation path across eight model and data
configurations. We do not claim exact reproduction of ev-
ery upstream implementation, as such comparisons require
matched checkpoints, preprocessing, simulator versions,
random seeds, and evaluation protocols.
5.4
Inference acceleration and numerical
alignment
The runtime evaluation compares the ordinary model path
with inference-specific implementations that replace eligi-
ble operations with Triton fused kernels, CUDA Graph
replay, and custom CUDA operators.
The optimized
GR00T path uses an inference VLM backbone and flow-
matching head, while the optimized π0.5 path captures
a larger portion of the vision–language–action pipeline.
These are model-specific optimizations behind the same
predict_action boundary; they are not a universal com-
piler pass over arbitrary registered models.
Across the eight reported device/model cases in Table 9,
acceleration raises model frequency by 2.31× to 9.64×.
On A100, GR00T increases from 5.96 to 32.6 Hz and
π0.5 from 2.2 to 21.2 Hz. On RTX 5090, the optimized
paths reach 42.6 Hz for GR00T, 47.6 Hz for GR00T with
Training-time RTC, and 31.6 Hz for π0.5. The edge result
is also practically relevant: on AGX Orin 64GB, GR00T
rises from 3.2 to 7.4 Hz and π0.5 from 1.4 to 4.4 Hz.
The magnitude varies across devices and models because
the fraction of work captured or fused, launch overhead,
sequence shapes, and accelerator characteristics differ.
The 4090 π0.5-RTC source row, which uses the Training-
time RTC route, lists 3.4 and 19.6 Hz. Their ratio is
5.76×, which is the value reported here; this corrects the
inconsistent 6.66× ratio printed in the frozen accelera-
tion document. More broadly, the frequencies require a
standardized rerun before publication-quality hardware
comparison. The current documentation does not com-
pletely specify warm-up iterations, measurement repeti-
tions, synchronization points, batch and sequence shapes,
denoising steps, clock/power settings, or whether image
preprocessing is inside the timed region.
Acceleration is useful only if it preserves the intended
policy computation.
The released GR00T test copies
matched random weights into the baseline and acceler-
ated heads, holds inputs and sampling seed fixed, and
compares predicted actions. Cosine similarities exceed
0.99999 for both the plain and Training-time RTC prefix-
conditioning paths, with maximum absolute differences
of approximately 0.02. These results are consistent with
small changes from bf16 kernels, fusion, and operation
ordering. They validate numerical alignment of the tested
head-level paths, but not full checkpoint equivalence or
task-level parity. A stronger final protocol should add
representative trained checkpoints, multiple observations
and seeds, action-error distributions after denormalization,
and closed-loop success with and without acceleration.
These results characterize runtime efficiency in two
parts.
First, specialized backends provide substantial
model-path speedups across datacenter, desktop, and
edge GPUs. Second, the tested accelerated GR00T head
remains closely aligned with the baseline computation.
End-to-end control benefit remains a separate measure-
ment: an inference path running at 40 Hz does not imply
a 40-Hz robot loop if cameras, network transfer, or com-
mand execution are slower. The serving profiler already
separates serialization, round trip, server inference, net-
work residual, deserialization, payload size, and total
time; a future quantitative table should aggregate those
measurements under controlled local and remote network
conditions.
5.5
Trajectory post-processing behavior
We benchmark the host-side latency of the joint MPC
and Ruckig backends independently of policy inference.
Both implementations process each selected joint sepa-
rately; this experiment does not evaluate coupled-joint or
Cartesian post-processing.
The measured tracking latency in Table 11 is small rela-
tive to many large-model inference calls, although it is not
negligible for high-rate control. Ruckig is approximately
4.19× faster in this configuration, showing that backend
choice changes the CPU overhead added before command
execution. These measurements are specific to the re-
ported processor, horizon, and degree-of-freedom count
23


Table 7: LIBERO closed-loop success rates (%) for integrated policy checkpoints and the inference-only GPT-6 API
policy. Uncertainty is shown only where reported; † marks the resource-limited evaluation. Bold denotes the highest
value in each metric column, including ties.
FluxVLA integration
Spatial
Object
Goal
Long
Average
GPT-6†
32.0
66.0
38.0
14.0
37.50
SmolVLA
86.2
92.4
91.4
68.8
84.70
Cosmos3-Edge
95.6
95.6
91.6
94.8
94.40
GR00T N1.5
97.4
96.2
94.6
93.0 ± 1.5
95.30
GR00T N1.7
96.5
97.6
97.6
92.0 ± 1.0
95.93
Qwen3VL-0.6B + GR00T N1.5
96.0
99.4
95.2
94.2
96.20
DreamZero
98.2
98.8
93.2
94.8
96.25
π0
98.6
98.8
96.8
93.2
96.85
Cosmos3-Nano
96.0
99.6
94.0
98.0
96.90
FastWAM
96.6
99.4
97.6
96.2
97.45
π0.5
98.6
99.6
98.0
95.6 ± 1.0
97.95
FastWAM-IDM
99.8
98.0
98.4
96.2
98.10
FastWAM-Joint
99.2
98.8
99.6
95.8
98.35
DiT4DiT
99.6
99.2
99.6
96.2
98.65
Evaluation scope. The rows differ in architecture, pretraining, optimization, and evaluation budget, and are not a controlled
algorithmic comparison. “Long” denotes libero_10. †GPT-6 evaluation budget. Due to resource constraints, only 5 episodes per
task are evaluated: 50 per suite and 200 in total. Successful episodes are 16/50 (Spatial), 33/50 (Object), 19/50 (Goal), and 7/50
(Long); the average is the mean of the four suite success rates. Other rows retain the previously reported checkpoint results.
and should not be interpreted as a general hardware rank-
ing. With bounds chosen for the robot, the joint-separable
formulation provides a practical precision–smoothness
trade-off: looser bounds track the policy reference more
closely, whereas tighter bounds reduce higher-order mo-
tion at the cost of tracking error or lag.
This result
characterizes the two provided backends rather than the
broader post-processing interface, which can host other
trajectory-processing methods.
Together, the latency measurement and the runtime
trace in Figure 6 provide complementary runtime and
deployment evidence: trajectory post-processing adds
millisecond-scale host overhead, and a Training-time RTC
output chunk is post-processed to connect to the active
processed trajectory at an asynchronous handoff. The
trace is qualitative and does not isolate Training-time
RTC from post-processing or establish an effect on task-
level performance.
5.6
Real-robot benchmark results
Table 12 reports closed-loop results for GR00T N1.5 and
π0.5 on five ALOHA tasks. GR00T N1.5 succeeds in 36 of
110 trials (32.73%), while π0.5 succeeds in 70 of 110 trials
(63.64%) and has a higher observed success rate on each
task. These results provide direct physical-robot evalua-
tion of two policy families through the shared FluxVLA
deployment path. They characterize the evaluated pol-
icy configurations rather than isolate an algorithmic or
framework-level cause of the performance gap.
Table 13 extends physical evaluation to stationary and
mobile manipulation on Oli using the same two policy
families. On box transport, GR00T N1.5 and π0.5 com-
plete the first three stages at similar rates (60.0% and
60.7%), but their full-task success rates are 6.7% and
32.8%, respectively. Reporting both milestones distin-
guishes partial progress from end-to-end completion. The
task profiles also differ: π0.5 has a higher observed candy-
picking success rate, whereas GR00T N1.5 has a higher
rate on basket-and-toy picking. These results character-
ize the evaluated configurations rather than establish an
overall ranking between policy families.
Table 14 provides complementary evidence from the
companion ARM study.
On a separate eight-stage
ALOHA towel-folding task, the reported success rate rises
from 62.1% for behavior cloning to 78.5% for SARM-based
RA-BC and 99.4% for ARM-based AW-BC, alongside
higher episode throughput and folding precision. The
result demonstrates that FluxVLA can participate in a
closed loop spanning real-robot data, reward modeling,
reweighted policy training, and deployment. Because the
study does not state the number of policy-evaluation trials,
this report preserves the published point estimates but
does not derive confidence intervals or claim statistical
significance.
A common real-robot protocol should evaluate a small
representative subset rather than every available plat-
24


Table 8: Project-reported RoboCasa GR-1 closed-loop success rates (%). All results use 50 trials per task, but differ in
model configuration and training-data budget and therefore should not be interpreted as a controlled model
comparison. Bold denotes the highest value in each metric column.
Integration
Training data
Cabinet
Drawer
Microwave
Generalization
Average
SmolVLA
24 tasks, full data
12.50
10.00
17.50
7.22
8.75
Cosmos3-Nano
24 tasks, full data
46.00
39.00
40.00
41.67
41.67
GR00T N1.5
24 tasks, 30 demos/task
22.7
35.7
32.5
48.9
44.30
GR00T N1.7
24 tasks, full data
53.00
51.00
47.00
45.11
46.42
FastWAM
24 tasks, full data
55.00
47.00
47.00
50.00
49.92
π0
24 tasks, full data
60.0
56.0
48.0
49.33
51.00
π0.5
24 tasks, full data
60.0
51.0
52.0
50.44
51.42
DiT4DiT
24 tasks, full data
63.0
52.0
59.0
57.0
57.25
Cabinet, Drawer, and Microwave each aggregate two trained manipulation tasks; Generalization aggregates the remaining 18 post-
training novel tasks. Overall averages are project-reported across all 24 tasks; the source does not provide per-task uncertainty.
form. For each policy–robot pair, it should freeze the
checkpoint, camera layout, control representation, nor-
malization statistics, action horizon, execution horizon,
inference location, and control rate. Each task should
declare its initial-state distribution, timeout, success pred-
icate, number of independent trials, intervention rule, and
treatment of communication or safety failures. Reporting
should include per-task success with confidence intervals,
end-to-end latency, intervention rate, completion time,
and a failure taxonomy. These records are necessary to dis-
tinguish model errors from sensing, transport, controller,
and operator failures.
5.7
Findings and remaining controlled
studies
The current evidence supports three conclusions. First,
across multiple integrated policy families, the released con-
figurations obtain strong closed-loop results on LIBERO
and execute through a second simulator family, RoboCasa
GR-1. Second, model-specific accelerated backends sub-
stantially increase reported inference frequency with close
numerical alignment in the available GR00T parity test;
the trajectory benchmark additionally quantifies the host-
side latency of joint MPC and jerk-limited filtering. Third,
the ALOHA and Oli benchmarks provide physical-robot
results for GR00T N1.5 and π0.5, including stage-aware
evaluation of mobile manipulation, while the ARM study
provides complementary evidence for offline policy im-
provement. The runtime trace additionally demonstrates
that Training-time RTC and trajectory post-processing
can execute in sequence.
Several claims remain deliberately open. The current
snapshot does not provide a uniform upstream-versus-
FluxVLA reproduction study, a controlled comparison of
all LIBERO models, multi-seed uncertainty for most table
entries, a single-/multi-node training scaling sweep, task-
level parity for accelerated inference, a controlled compar-
ison of RTC routes under injected latency, a local-versus-
remote closed-loop comparison, or a common multi-robot
trial benchmark. These are the highest-value additions
for a subsequent report revision because each isolates a
platform claim rather than adding another uncalibrated
model score.
A suitable controlled-study order is: (1) reproduce
one autoregressive and one flow-matching policy against
their upstream evaluation paths; (2) benchmark training
throughput and peak memory as device count increases;
(3) measure baseline, individual kernel groups, CUDA
Graphs, and their combination under a single latency
harness; (4) compare an unconditioned baseline, Training-
time RTC, original Test-time RTC with VJP guidance,
and the direct approximation across controlled inference
delays and execution horizons; and (5) run a shared pick-
and-place protocol on two embodiments with both local
and remote inference.
This sequence would turn the
current breadth and project-reported measurements into
causal evidence about reproduction, scaling, runtime op-
timization, temporal coordination, and cross-platform
deployment.
6
Conclusion and Outlook
6.1
Conclusion
Embodied policy learning is no longer defined by a sin-
gle modeling paradigm.
Vision–language–action mod-
els connect multimodal instructions directly to robot ac-
tions, world–action models incorporate predicted visual
dynamics and longer temporal structure, and offline re-
inforcement learning or reward-guided methods improve
policies from previously collected experience. Although
25


Table 9: Project-reported model inference frequency for baseline and accelerated implementations. Speedups are
recomputed from the displayed frequencies. These values describe model execution and should not be read as
end-to-end robot control rates. RTC-labelled rows use the Training-time RTC route with prefix-conditioned inference.
Device
Model path
Baseline (Hz)
Accelerated (Hz)
Speedup
NVIDIA A100
GR00T
5.96
32.6
5.47×
NVIDIA A100
π0.5
2.20
21.2
9.64×
NVIDIA RTX 5090
GR00T
14.7
42.6
2.90×
NVIDIA RTX 5090
GR00T + RTC
15.0
47.6
3.17×
NVIDIA RTX 5090
π0.5
4.52
31.6
6.99×
NVIDIA RTX 4090
π0.5 + RTC
3.40
19.6
5.76×
NVIDIA AGX Orin 64GB
GR00T
3.20
7.40
2.31×
NVIDIA AGX Orin 64GB
π0.5
1.40
4.40
3.14×
Measurement status. The frozen documentation reports frequencies but does not yet attach the raw timing traces or a complete
common protocol covering batch size, observation shape, denoising steps, warm-up, precision, synchronization, power mode, and timing
boundaries. The table therefore supports the existence of substantial path-specific speedups, not a hardware-normalized comparison
between models.
Table 10: Random-weight numerical comparison between the original and accelerated GR00T action heads reported by
the acceleration tests.
Compared path
Cosine similarity
Maximum absolute difference
Plain GR00T
0.99999237
0.02273726
GR00T with Training-time RTC
0.99999380
0.02104545
Both paths use matched randomly initialized weights, inputs, and sampling seeds. The test checks implementation alignment under
bf16 fused operations and CUDA Graph replay; it is not a substitute for checkpoint-level action parity or closed-loop task evaluation.
Table 11: Project-reported trajectory post-processing
latency for a 12-DoF, 50-step synthetic trajectory on an
Intel Xeon Platinum 8336C CPU. Values include warmed
solver execution but exclude policy inference and robot
I/O. Bold denotes the lower latency.
Backend
Mode
Mean latency (ms)
Joint MPC
Tracking
4.90
Ruckig filter
Tracking
1.17
their learning objectives differ, all three depend on the
same engineering foundations: versioned data and action
semantics, scalable training, reproducible evaluation, ef-
ficient inference, and reliable connections to simulators
and physical robots. FluxVLA addresses this shared
systems problem through a configuration-driven platform
that treats the full policy lifecycle as one reconstructable
workflow.
A common Parquet-oriented data layer and ordered
transform pipelines separate storage from policy-specific
semantics. Registry-built models accommodate integrated
VLMs, compositional backbones and action heads, tempo-
ral or world-model components, and reward- or advantage-
weighted objectives. Runners own distributed training,
evaluation, serving, checkpoint state, and control-loop con-
text, while operators isolate simulator and robot commu-
nication. Training and evaluation are connected through
a clean eval-after-train transition; resolved configurations,
normalization statistics, and complete model weights re-
main attached to the run; and local, remote, and acceler-
ated inference share the same external action-prediction
contract. Real-Time Chunking coordinates asynchronous
prediction with ongoing execution, while runner-side tra-
jectory post-processing adapts denormalized chunks to
embodiment-specific motion requirements and active tra-
jectories.
The available evidence demonstrates the breadth and
practical value of these contracts while defining their
present limits. Released integrations cover autoregressive
VLA policies, modular VLM/action-head architectures,
pretrained action experts, compact policies, and world–
action or generative models. Project-reported results show
strong closed-loop performance on LIBERO and working
RoboCasa GR-1 paths. Optimized GR00T and π0.5 imple-
mentations provide substantial inference-frequency gains
26


−0.35
−0.34
−0.33
−0.32
DOF 0 position (rad)
2.10
2.12
2.14
2.16
2.18
DOF 1 position (rad)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
Time (s)
−1.45
−1.40
−1.35
−1.30
−1.25
−1.20
DOF 2 position (rad)
Prev. model
Prev. MPC
Curr. model
Curr. MPC
Chunk boundary
Figure 6: Qualitative real-robot runtime trace of asynchronous Training-time RTC followed by joint-MPC trajectory
post-processing. Dashed and solid curves denote model outputs and MPC-processed trajectories, respectively; blue
and red indicate the previous and current chunks, and the dotted line marks the chunk boundary. Across three
representative joints, the current MPC trajectory connects to the active previous trajectory at the handoff.
across datacenter, desktop, and edge GPUs, with the
available parity test showing close numerical alignment.
Five-task ALOHA and three-task Oli results additionally
provide direct closed-loop deployment evidence for GR00T
N1.5 and π0.5, spanning stationary and mobile manipula-
tion. Reward modeling and reweighted behavior-cloning
results provide an initial example of offline, advantage-
guided policy improvement within the same data and
deployment loop. These results establish FluxVLA as
an engineering foundation; they do not transfer owner-
ship of the integrated algorithms to the platform or imply
equal statistical validation for every configuration.
6.2
Outlook:
Toward
an
integrated
FluxVLA ecosystem
The next step is to develop FluxVLA from a unified
learning framework into the contract layer of a broader
embodied-intelligence ecosystem. Rather than incorpo-
rating data engineering, simulation, interactive collection,
evaluation, and model compilation into a single repository,
these responsibilities should remain modular and commu-
nicate through stable data, model, action, and evaluation
interfaces. This organization allows each subsystem to
evolve independently while preserving an end-to-end work-
flow.
Table 15 summarizes the intended division of responsi-
bilities. The components are currently at different stages
of maturity; the table describes their target roles rather
than implying that every capability is already production-
complete.
FluxMimir:
validated offline data engineering.
Raw robot trajectories are rarely ready for direct model
training.
They may differ in schema, temporal align-
ment, action semantics, calibration, task annotation, and
data quality. FluxMimir is designed to sit upstream of
FluxVLA and convert these heterogeneous sources into
validated, versioned dataset releases.
It owns canoni-
cal conversion, semantic and temporal validation, dataset
statistics, optional visual or language annotation, and data
provenance. FluxVLA can consequently focus on model-
27


Table 12: Closed-loop ALOHA benchmark results for GR00T N1.5 and π0.5. Each task entry is successful trials / total
trials. Overall success pools all 110 trials per policy rather than averaging the five task-level success rates. Bold
denotes the higher success rate in each metric column.
Policy
Deformable-object folding
Pick-and-place
Overall (%)
Task 1
Task 2
Task 1
Task 2
Task 3
GR00T N1.5
4/20
8/30
11/20
3/20
10/20
32.73
π0.5
14/20
23/30
15/20
6/20
12/20
63.64
Table 13: Oli real-robot completion rates (%). Mobile manipulation 1 has four stages: completion of stages 1–3 is a
cumulative intermediate milestone, whereas completion of all four stages measures full task success. Mobile
manipulation 2 requires at least two toys to be picked up. Bold denotes the higher rate in each metric column.
Policy
Stationary manipulation
Mobile manipulation 1
Mobile manipulation 2
Candy picking
Box transport
Basket-and-toy picking
Full task
Stages 1–3 completed
All 4 stages completed
≥2 toys picked up
GR00T N1.5
40.5
60.0
6.7
36.3
π0.5
62.5
60.7
32.8
29.7
The stage-1–3 and all-four-stage rates describe the same box-transport task, not two independent tasks. Trial counts are not reported
in the available summary; no pooled success rate is computed.
facing transforms and learning from a fixed dataset release
rather than repeatedly implementing source-specific con-
version logic.
FluxBisim: scalable simulation and data genera-
tion.
FluxBisim provides the simulation layer for con-
structing manipulation tasks, generating demonstrations,
and evaluating policies before physical deployment. Its
observations, actions, task definitions, and trajectories
should follow the same semantic contracts used by the
learning engine and physical datasets. This enables sim-
ulated experience to pass through FluxMimir and enter
the standard FluxVLA training pipeline. Future devel-
opment can expand task diversity, domain randomization,
whole-body scenarios, and simulation-to-real validation
without introducing simulator-specific logic into individ-
ual policies.
FluxDAgger:
interactive policy improvement.
FluxDAgger closes the loop between deployment failures
and subsequent training. It decouples policy inference
from human takeover so that different VLA, WAM, or
reward models can share the same interactive collection
workflow. Autonomous trajectories, intervention bound-
aries, corrective commands, and the identity of the gen-
erating policy can be recorded together and passed to
FluxMimir for validation and release. The resulting data
can support behavior cloning, offline reinforcement learn-
ing, reward-guided optimization, and iterative policy re-
finement.
A key future direction is to preserve complete lineage
across this loop. Each correction should remain associated
with the original observation, policy prediction, human in-
tervention, execution result, and resulting dataset revision.
This makes it possible to determine not only whether a
policy improves, but also which failures and corrections
produced that improvement.
FluxThemis:
unified evaluation orchestration.
FluxThemis is intended to provide a dedicated evalu-
ation layer for both simulation and physical robots. It
separates policy inference from environment execution,
rendering, scheduling, and result aggregation. This sepa-
ration is particularly useful for computationally expensive
simulators, remote inference, asynchronous checkpoint
evaluation, and experiments involving shared physical
hardware.
The evaluation contract should specify task versions,
initialization conditions, trial budgets, success criteria,
random seeds, intervention rules, and failure categories.
FluxThemis can then evaluate either a training check-
point or a deployment bundle under the same declared
protocol, producing comparable trial-level records rather
than relying on manually collected summaries.
FluxHermes: verified compilation and deployment.
FluxHermes is intended to bridge the gap between a
trained FluxVLA model and an efficient hardware-
specific deployment artifact. Its scope includes model
export, graph optimization, reduced-precision execution,
28


Table 14: Real-robot results reported by the companion ARM study [25]. All methods use a GR00T-N1.5 policy on an
eight-stage AgileX ALOHA towel-folding task with a 120-second timeout. The training set contains 972 episodes: 809
expert and 163 DAgger episodes. Bold denotes the highest value in each metric column.
Method
Reward model
Success (%)
Throughput (episodes/h)
Folding precision
Behavior cloning
None
62.1
18
2.2
RA-BC
SARM
78.5
24
2.7
AW-BC
ARM
99.4
32
3.6
Provenance. Values are transcribed from Table 2 of the ARM paper, not regenerated by this report. The source defines task success
and timeout but does not report the number of policy-evaluation trials. The result is evidence for one integrated data–reward–training–
deployment workflow, not a standardized comparison across embodiments.
Table 15: Target organization of the FluxVLA ecosystem. Each subsystem owns a distinct stage while exchanging
versioned artifacts through shared contracts.
System
Primary responsibility
Principal artifact or contract
FluxMimir
Offline data ingestion, canonicalization,
enrichment, validation, and versioned release
Validated Parquet/LeRobot-compatible datasets
with explicit schemas, statistics, and provenance
FluxBisim
Scalable simulation, task construction,
demonstration generation, and closed-loop rollout
Versioned task definitions, trajectories, simulator
metadata, and rollout records
FluxDAgger
Human-in-the-loop rollout, intervention,
correction, and iterative data collection
Intervention-aligned trajectories with
source-policy and correction provenance
FluxVLA Engine
VLA and WAM construction, offline or
reward-guided learning, distributed training, and
policy inference
Self-contained model artifacts with preprocessing,
normalization, and action semantics
FluxThemis
Simulation and physical-robot evaluation
orchestration
Versioned evaluation protocols, trial records,
metrics, and failure reports
FluxHermes
Model export, optimization, quantization,
validation, and deployment packaging
Hardware-specific deployment bundles with
numerical and performance validation
backend compilation, and numerical validation. The re-
sulting bundle should preserve not only model parameters,
but also the preprocessing, normalization, embodiment,
and action semantics required to execute the policy cor-
rectly.
Performance optimization must remain subordinate to
semantic fidelity. Compiled or quantized models should
therefore be validated against their source implementa-
tions before physical deployment. Numerical agreement,
latency, memory consumption, simulation regression, and
controlled robot tests together provide stronger evidence
than inference speed alone.
6.3
A unified future lifecycle
Together, these systems form a closed improvement cycle.
FluxBisim generates simulated tasks, demonstrations, and
rollout experience, while FluxDAgger collects intervention
and correction data from policy execution. FluxMimir
converts these heterogeneous sources into validated and
versioned dataset releases. FluxVLA consumes those
releases to train VLA, WAM, and offline or reward-guided
policies and produces self-contained model artifacts. Flux-
Hermes can compile selected models into target-specific
deployment bundles, and FluxThemis evaluates check-
points or compiled bundles in simulation and on physical
robots. Failures and interventions observed during evalu-
ation are returned through FluxDAgger and FluxMimir
to form the next dataset revision.
References
[1] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti,
Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael
Rafailov, Ethan Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag San-
keti, Quan Vuong, Thomas Kollar, Benjamin Burch-
fiel, Russ Tedrake, Dorsa Sadigh, Sergey Levine,
Percy Liang, and Chelsea Finn. OpenVLA: An open-
source vision-language-action model. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.09246, 2024.
29


[2] NVIDIA, Johan Bjorck, Fernando Castañeda, et al.
GR00T N1: An open foundation model for generalist
humanoid robots. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14734,
2025.
[3] Seonghyeon
Ye,
Yunhao
Ge,
Kaiyuan
Zheng,
Shenyuan Gao, Sihyun Yu, George Kurian, Suneel
Indupuru, You Liang Tan, Chuning Zhu, Jiannan Xi-
ang, et al. World action models are zero-shot policies.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.15922, 2026.
[4] Teli Ma, Jia Zheng, Zifan Wang, Chunli Jiang, Andy
Cui, Junwei Liang, and Shuo Yang. DiT4DiT: Jointly
modeling video dynamics and actions for generaliz-
able robot control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.10448,
2026.
[5] Sergey Levine, Aviral Kumar, George Tucker, and
Justin Fu. Offline reinforcement learning: Tutorial,
review, and perspectives on open problems. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2005.01643, 2020.
[6] Kai Chen, Jiaqi Wang, Jiangmiao Pang, Yuhang Cao,
Yu Xiong, Xiaoxiao Li, Shuyang Sun, Wansen Feng,
Ziwei Liu, Jiarui Xu, Zheng Zhang, Dazhi Cheng,
Chenchen Zhu, Tianheng Cheng, Qijie Zhao, Buyu
Li, Xin Lu, Rui Zhu, Yue Wu, Jifeng Dai, Jingdong
Wang, Jianping Shi, Wanli Ouyang, Chen Change
Loy, and Dahua Lin. MMDetection: Open mmlab
detection toolbox and benchmark. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1906.07155, 2019.
[7] MMDetection3D Contributors.
MMDetection3D:
OpenMMLab’s next-generation platform for gen-
eral 3D object detection.
https://github.com/
open-mmlab/mmdetection3d, 2020.
[8] Ajay Mandlekar, Danfei Xu, Josiah Wong, Soroush
Nasiriany, Chen Wang, Rohun Kulkarni, Li Fei-Fei,
Silvio Savarese, Yuke Zhu, and Roberto Martín-
Martín. What matters in learning from offline hu-
man demonstrations for robot manipulation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2108.03298, 2021.
[9] Remi Cadene, Simon Alibert, Francesco Capuano,
Michel Aractingi, Adil Zouitine, Pepijn Kooijmans,
Jade Choghari, Martino Russi, Caroline Pascal,
Steven Palma, Dana Aubakirova, Mustafa Shukor,
Jess Moss, Alexander Soare, Quentin Lhoest, Quentin
Gallouédec, and Thomas Wolf. LeRobot: An open-
source library for end-to-end robot learning.
In
The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2026.
[10] StarVLA Community. StarVLA: A lego-like codebase
for vision-language-action model developing, 2026.
[11] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yev-
gen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, et al. RT-1: Robotics
transformer for real-world control at scale. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022.
[12] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal,
Yevgen Chebotar, Xi Chen, et al.
RT-2: Vision-
language-action models transfer web knowledge to
robotic control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15818,
2023.
[13] Karl Pertsch, Kyle Stachowicz, Brian Ichter, Danny
Driess, Suraj Nair, Quan Vuong, Oier Mees, Chelsea
Finn, and Sergey Levine.
FAST: Efficient action
tokenization for vision-language-action models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2501.09747, 2025.
[14] Tony Z. Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and
Chelsea Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual ma-
nipulation with low-cost hardware. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.13705, 2023.
[15] Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Siyuan Feng, Eric Cousineau,
Yilun Du, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, and
Shuran Song.
Diffusion policy: Visuomotor pol-
icy learning via action diffusion.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.04137, 2023.
[16] Octo Model Team, Dibya Ghosh, Homer Walke,
Karl Pertsch, Kevin Black, et al.
Octo:
An
open-source generalist robot policy. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.12213, 2024.
[17] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan
Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai,
Lachy Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, et al. π0:
A vision-language-action flow model for general robot
control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[18] Physical Intelligence, Kevin Black, Noah Brown,
James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny Driess,
et al.
π0.5:
A vision-language-action model
with open-world generalization.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.
[19] Mustafa Shukor, Dana Aubakirova, Francesco Ca-
puano, Pepijn Kooijmans, Steven Palma, Adil Zoui-
tine, Michel Aractingi, Caroline Pascal, Martino
Russi, Andres Marafioti, Simon Alibert, Matthieu
Cord, Thomas Wolf, and Remi Cadene. SmolVLA:
A vision-language-action model for affordable and
efficient robotics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.01844,
2025.
[20] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and
Yong Jae Lee. Visual instruction tuning. In Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
2023.
[21] Tianyuan Yuan, Zibin Dong, Yicheng Liu, and
Hang Zhao. Fast-WAM: Do world action models
need test-time future imagination? arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.16666, 2026.
[22] Aviral Kumar, Aurick Zhou, George Tucker, and
Sergey Levine. Conservative Q-learning for offline
30


reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, 2020.
[23] Ilya Kostrikov, Ashvin Nair, and Sergey Levine. Of-
fline reinforcement learning with implicit Q-learning.
In International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions, 2022.
[24] Stéphane Ross, Geoffrey J. Gordon, and J. Andrew
Bagnell. A reduction of imitation learning and struc-
tured prediction to no-regret online learning. In Pro-
ceedings of the Fourteenth International Conference
on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, volume 15,
pages 627–635, 2011.
[25] Yiming Mao, Zixi Yu, Weixin Mao, Yinhao Li, Qirui
Hu, Zihan Lan, Minzhao Zhu, and Hua Chen. ARM:
Advantage reward modeling for long-horizon manip-
ulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.03037, 2026.
[26] Sabela Ramos, Sertan Girgin, Léonard Hussenot,
Damien Vincent, et al.
RLDS: An ecosystem to
generate, share and use datasets in reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.02767, 2021.
[27] Open X-Embodiment Collaboration, Abby O’Neill,
Abdul Rehman, Abhinav Gupta, Abhiram Mad-
dukuri, et al. Open X-embodiment: Robotic learn-
ing datasets and RT-X models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.08864, 2023.
[28] Bo Liu, Yifeng Zhu, Chongkai Gao, Yihao Feng,
Qiang Liu, Yuke Zhu, and Peter Stone. LIBERO:
Benchmarking knowledge transfer for lifelong robot
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.03310, 2023.
[29] Soroush Nasiriany, Abhiram Maddukuri, Lance
Zhang, Adeet Parikh, Aaron Lo, Abhishek Joshi,
Ajay Mandlekar, and Yuke Zhu. RoboCasa: Large-
scale simulation of household tasks for generalist
robots. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Sys-
tems, July 2024.
[30] Kevin Black, Manuel Y. Galliker, and Sergey Levine.
Real-time execution of action chunking flow policies.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.07339, 2025.
[31] Kevin Black, Allen Z. Ren, Michael Equi, and Sergey
Levine. Training-time action conditioning for efficient
real-time chunking. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.05964,
2025.
[32] Yunchao Ma, Yizhuang Zhou, Yunhuan Yang, Tian-
cai Wang, and Haoqiang Fan. Running VLAs at
real-time speed. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.26742,
2025.
[33] Bartolomeo Stellato, Goran Banjac, Paul Goulart,
Alberto Bemporad, and Stephen Boyd. OSQP: An
operator splitting solver for quadratic programs.
Mathematical Programming Computation, 12:637–
672, 2020.
[34] Lars Berscheid and Torsten Kröger. Jerk-limited
real-time trajectory generation with arbitrary tar-
get states. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and
Systems, July 2021.
31
