ProxiDex: Learning Dynamics-Guided Proximity
Policy for Dexterous Manipulation
Yushan Bai1,2,∗
Boyu Zheng1,2,∗
Zhiyang Mao4
Hongzheng Sun1,2
Yuchuang Tong1,2,†
En Li1,2,3
Zhengtao Zhang1,2,3,†
1CAS Engineering Laboratory for Intelligent Industrial Vision, Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
2School of Artificial Intelligence, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
3Beijing Zhongke Huiling Robot Technology Co., LTD.
4School of Intelligent Science and Technology, Xinjiang University
∗Equal contribution.
†Corresponding authors.
Figure 1: We propose ProxiDex, a framework that integrates teleoperation with proximity-policy
learning. The left panel shows immersive teleoperation with proximity feedback, while the right
panel demonstrates robust performance in both simulation and real-world dexterous manipulation.
Abstract: Multi-finger dexterous manipulation relies on stable hand-object inter-
actions, yet these interactions are partially observable in practice. Visual observa-
tions are often occluded by the hand, tactile sensors introduce hardware-specific
modalities and calibration burdens, and existing policies rarely model how these
cues evolve under actions, making them brittle under contact uncertainty. To ad-
dress these, we present ProxiDex, a dynamics-guided proximity policy framework
that treats hand-object proximity as an interaction state for dexterous manipula-
tion. ProxiDex reconstructs interaction point clouds and converts geometric dis-
tances into proximity cues, forming a hardware-agnostic contact representation
that provides immersive feedback during VR teleoperation. Built on this repre-
sentation, ProxiDex learns action-conditioned proximity dynamics with a coupled
forward–inverse design: future observation latents are predicted from actions,
while proximity variations are decoded from latent changes. Leveraging these
dynamics, ProxiDex adaptively reweights proximity tokens across manipulation
phases and uses dynamics-consistency supervision to guide policy inference, sta-
bilizing action generation under unreliable visual feedback. Simulation and real-
world experiments demonstrate improved success rates and robustness over rep-
resentative baselines across standard, unseen objects, and perturbation scenarios.
Additional visualizations are available at https://proxidex.github.io/.
Keywords: Dexterous Manipulation, Interaction Dynamics, Imitation Learning
10th Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL 2026), Austin TX, USA.
arXiv:2609.16586v1  [cs.RO]  15 Sep 2026


1
Introduction
Dexterous manipulation with multi-fingered hands is a fundamental capability for human-like
robotic systems [1]. Compared with parallel jaw grippers, dexterous hands require coordinated
control of arm-level motion and fingertip-level interactions to accomplish complex tasks such as
grasping, insertion, and tool use [2, 3]. A key requirement for learning such skills is the ability
to represent local hand-object geometric interaction, which governs how contact is formed, trans-
ferred, and maintained during manipulation [4]. However, acquiring such interaction cues from
demonstrations remains challenging. Vision-based teleoperation systems [5, 6] suffer from frequent
occlusions that obscure critical contact regions, while tactile sensing provides limited scalability
due to heterogeneous hardware designs and costly calibration across platforms [7, 8]. As a result,
reliable local interaction information is often missing or inconsistent in collected data, limiting the
ability of visuomotor policies to infer the underlying and evolving physical interaction structure.
This limitation exposes a broader gap in existing imitation learning approaches for dexterous ma-
nipulation. Most methods [9, 10, 11] directly learn end-to-end mappings from visual observations
to actions, relying on implicit feature representations without explicitly modeling hand-object geo-
metric proximity or its temporal evolution. Even when contact-related signals are incorporated, they
are typically treated as auxiliary inputs without modeling how actions induce changes in interaction
states or how interaction structure constrains future control [12, 13]. This leads to brittle behav-
ior under occlusion, tracking noise, or contact uncertainty, where policies often generate physically
inconsistent actions and fail to generalize beyond clean demonstrations.
To address these challenges, we propose ProxiDex, a dynamics-guided proximity policy learning
framework that builds on hand-object geometric proximity as a coherent interaction representation
and models its action-conditioned evolution for robust policy learning. As shown in Fig. 1, within
a VR teleoperation setting [14], we reconstruct interaction point clouds and visualize them as im-
mersive proximity feedback for operators. We further convert point-cloud distances into hardware-
agnostic proximity feedback, enabling scalable inference of local interaction cues without tactile
instrumentation. Based on this representation, ProxiDex learns forward-inverse latent dynamics that
couple action-driven observation transitions with proximity variations, capturing the evolution of lo-
cal hand-object interactions during manipulation. Leveraging these interaction dynamics, ProxiDex
adaptively reweights proximity tokens across manipulation phases, balancing global observation
guidance during motion with local proximity constraints during interaction. Dynamics consistency
further guides online inference, stabilizing action generation under occlusion and tracking failures.
The main contributions of ProxiDex are summarized as follows: 1) We propose a data-construction
pipeline and a VR-based teleoperation with proximity feedback, which provides scalable local in-
teraction cues without tactile instrumentation. 2) We develop a forward-inverse latent dynamics
model to capture action-conditioned evolution between observation transitions and proximity vari-
ations. 3) We introduce a trajectory-adaptive proximity policy with dynamics-consistency guided
inference, improving robustness under occlusion and tracking failures.
2
Related Work
Demonstration data acquisition for dexterous manipulation. High-quality demonstration data
are fundamental to learning dexterous manipulation. Existing data-collection systems often trade
off sensing accuracy against deployment cost [9, 15]. Methods based on data gloves or tactile
sensing devices [16, 17, 18] can provide fine-grained contact feedback, but they typically rely on
expensive hardware and require calibration, maintenance, and cross-platform alignment. Vision-
based teleoperation methods [6, 19, 20, 21] reduce deployment barriers, yet they struggle to capture
local proximity relations reliably under complex hand-object occlusions. UMI-style devices [22, 23]
and video-parsing methods [24, 25] offer promising scalability, but they are often constrained by
specific end-effector designs or the quality of 3D reconstruction. In contrast, we adopt a VR-based
2


arm-hand co-teleoperation pipeline and explicitly recover interaction structure through geometric
proximity, enabling scalable and interaction-aware data collection.
Imitation learning for dexterous manipulation. Imitation learning has advanced dexterous ma-
nipulation by modeling action distributions with Transformers or diffusion models [9, 10]. Yet
commonly used 2D observations struggle to capture the fine spatial relationships required for multi-
finger contact. Point-cloud-based policies improve geometric awareness [11, 26, 27], but these
methods still fail to maintain a consistent representation of interaction states under occlusion. Re-
construction and pose-based methods recover more complete geometry [1], but mainly emphasize
static geometric alignment rather than the temporal evolution of contact states. These limitations
indicate that existing methods lack an explicit modeling of interaction as a structured and evolving
state, motivating our explicit proximity-based interaction representation.
Dynamics-aware representation learning. Using dynamics models to enhance the physical aware-
ness of policies has become an important direction in dexterous manipulation. Latent dynamics
pretraining methods [28, 29] improve the dynamics sensitivity of observation encoders by predict-
ing future states, but their latent representations often lack explicit physical meaning. Multimodal
world models [30, 31, 32] assist action generation through future latent prediction, yet their com-
plex model structures and inference pipelines can limit deployment efficiency. Geometry-evolution
prediction method [33] can capture changes in point-cloud positions and velocities, but they remain
limited in representing fine-grained contact logic in dexterous manipulation. Particle-based world
models [34, 35] can reconstruct hand-object interaction processes, but they rarely model interaction
explicitly as a bidirectional evolution of geometric proximity under actions. Motivated by these
observations, we model interaction as a bidirectional evolution of geometric proximity under action
influence, enabling explicit reasoning over contact dynamics.
3
Problem Formulation
Given an expert demonstration dataset D = {τi}, each trajectory τ = {(ot, aE
t )}T
t=1 consists of
observations ot and expert actions aE
t . Imitation learning aims to train a parameterized policy πθ
to match expert behavior. For 3D point-cloud observations, an encoder fϕ is typically used to map
ot into a latent representation zt = fϕ(ot), from which the policy generates an action distribution
at ∼πθ(·|zt).
To improve the policy’s awareness of future physical evolution, prior methods often introduce a
latent dynamics model hψ as auxiliary supervision. Given the current latent representation zt and
a future k-step sequence of expert actions aE
t:t+k−1, the model predicts the future latent state and is
optimized through a feature reconstruction loss:
ˆzt+k = hψ(zt, aE
t:t+k−1),
Ldyn = Eτ∼D[∥ˆzt+k −fϕ(ot+k)∥2
2]
(1)
However, directly modeling the observation latent space is insufficient for contact-rich dexterous
manipulation. First, frequent hand-object occlusions cause the raw observation ot to miss fingertip
contact regions, making interaction cues unobservable. Second, when only Ldyn is used to enforce
future feature consistency, the model tends to prioritize salient motion patterns such as object-pose
changes while overlooking the fine-grained evolution of hand-object distance and contact state. Our
central motivation is therefore to construct a more physically meaningful interaction representation.
We first reconstruct an occlusion-free hand-object interaction point cloud op
t to mitigate geometric
information loss. We then introduce latent interaction dynamics, consisting of a forward dynamics
model and an inverse differential module, to help the policy anticipate proximity and contact-state
evolution and generate reliable actions under perturbation.
4
Method
We propose ProxiDex to address visual occlusion and missing local interaction cues in dexterous
manipulation, as illustrated in Fig. 2. The method proceeds in three stages: (1) interaction-aware data
3


Figure 2: Overview of ProxiDex. It combines proximity-aware data acquisition, latent dynamics
modeling, and trajectory-adaptive policy learning for robust dexterous manipulation.
acquisition, which reconstructs hand–object interaction point clouds from manipulation images and
robot states (Sec. 4.1); (2) latent interaction dynamics modeling, which extracts region-level prox-
imity cues and learns action-conditioned proximity evolution (Sec. 4.2); and (3) trajectory-adaptive
policy inference, which incorporates these cues into a diffusion policy to reweight proximity tokens
across manipulation phases, while dynamics-consistency guidance supports closed-loop inference
for robust action generation (Secs. 4.3 and 4.4; Fig. 3).
4.1
Interaction-Aware Data Acquisition
To collect high quality demonstrations that reflect hand-object contact relations, we build an
interaction-aware data collection pipeline that unifies visual observations, robot proprioception, and
proximity information in the robot base frame, as illustrated in Appendix Fig. 10. Demonstrations
are collected using a VR arm-hand co-teleoperation system based on Hand Tracking Streamer [14],
which synchronously records robot states, target-object poses, and expert actions. Details of teleop-
eration control, action retargeting, and proximity feedback in VR are provided in Appendix A.1.
To represent hand-object interaction details, we first use Grounded-SAM [36] and SAM3D [37]
to reconstruct the target object from a single initial image, followed by metric scale calibration to
obtain the object model Mo, and then track its 6D pose during demonstrations using Foundation-
Pose++ [38]. The full procedure is described in Appendix A.2. Inspired by interaction-centric grasp
representations [39], we sample surface points from both the reconstructed object mesh and the
hand-link at time t. As shown in Fig. 2(a), the sampled points are then transformed into the robot
base frame to obtain P o
t and P h
t . The interaction point cloud observation at time t is then defined
as op
t = P o
t ∪P h
t . Compared with raw scene point clouds, the interaction point cloud preserves
hand-object geometric relations more reliably and reduces the influence of background noise.
From op
t , we derive hand-object proximity observations by computing local distances between sam-
pled hand surface points and object surface points. The resulting point-wise proximity strengths
are then aggregated within each physical hand region Sk, yielding the region-level proximity vec-
tor oprox
t
= [γ1
t , . . . , γK
t ]. The detailed computation is provided in Appendix A.3. In addition, we
use the palm-region response γpalm
t
to generate a trajectory-phase label otraj
t
= I(γpalm
t
> τpalm),
where otraj
t
= 0 denotes the approach phase and otraj
t
= 1 denotes the contact-interaction phase.
This label provides a coarse motion-phase prior for subsequent models. Each demonstration frame
is finally represented as (op
t , oprox
t
, otraj
t
, st, at), where st is the robot proprioceptive state and at
is the expert action. This representation jointly contains the interaction point cloud, region-level
proximity, and trajectory-phase label, providing a physically interpretable interaction observation
for latent dynamics modeling and policy learning.
4


4.2
Latent Interaction Dynamics Modeling
After obtaining the interaction-aware demonstration representation, we model latent interaction dy-
namics with self-supervised learning, encouraging the observation encoder to capture action-driven
changes in hand-object proximity. As illustrated in Fig. 2(b), we first pretrain a VAE on the proxim-
ity observation oprox
t
, compressing region-level proximity responses into a proximity latent variable
zprox
t
and reconstructing ˆzprox
t
to obtain a stable contact representation. This proximity latent vari-
able then serves as a physical anchor for aligning visual and contact cues.
Next, the observation encoder Eθ encodes the interaction point cloud op
t and robot state st into an
observation latent variable zobs
t
. A forward dynamics model FDM(·) based on the DiT architecture
[40] takes zobs
t
and the action sequence at:t+h−1 as input and predicts future observation latents.
Meanwhile, the inverse differential module IDM(·) infers the proximity latent at the corresponding
time step from predicted latent variable differences and aligns it with the VAE-derived zprox
t
. Details
are provided in Appendix B.1:
Lfor = 1
H
H
X
h=1
∥FDM(zobs
t
, at:t+h−1) −zobs
t+h∥2
2,
Linv = 1
H
H
X
h=1
∥IDM(ˆzobs
t+h −ˆzobs
t+h−1) −zprox
t+h ∥2
2 (2)
FDM(·) constraint encourages zobs
t
to encode visual interaction and proprioceptive cues relevant to
future state evolution, while IDM(·) alignment makes latent transitions sensitive to proximity vari-
ations. To distinguish trajectory phases, we introduce a trajectory head that predicts the interaction-
phase probability pt
int from zobs
t
, supervised by the trajectory label otraj
t
defined in Sec. 4.1 with a
cross-entropy loss Ltraj. This stage is optimized with the following multi-task objective:
Lstage1 = λvLvae + λfLfor + λcLinv + λtLtraj.
(3)
After training, the observation encoder Eθ maps hand-object geometric observations into latent rep-
resentations that capture the coupling between action-driven state transitions and proximity changes.
These representations provide the state basis for downstream policy generation.
4.3
Trajectory-Adaptive Proximity Policy
During policy learning, we freeze the observation encoder trained in the previous stage and use a
Transformer-based denoising policy to generate actions. The core design is a trajectory-adaptive
asymmetric causal encoder. Specifically, the global observation feature zobs
t
is fully visible to all ac-
tion steps and provides high-level guidance about the manipulation scene. In contrast, the proximity-
token sequence zprox
t
is constrained by a causal memory mask Mcausal, so that the action at step s
can access only the current and historical proximity states (Fig. 2(c)). This branch is therefore re-
sponsible for local action refinement over time. Architectural details are given in Appendix B.2.
During Stage-2 training, zprox
t
is obtained from the frozen VAE, whereas at inference it is replaced
by the IDM estimate ˆzprox
t
, which is trained to match the same VAE latent space through Linv.
We further use the interaction-phase probability pint
t
from the trajectory head in Sec. 4.2 to adaptively
regulate the proximity branch: the local interaction branch is suppressed during the motion phase
and strengthened during the interaction phase. Given an expert action sequence A0, diffusion step
k, noisy action Ak, and noise ϵ, the training objective of the second stage is:
Lstage2 = EA0,ϵ,k
hϵ −ϵθ
 Ak, k | zobs
t
, g(pint
t )zprox
t
2
2
i
+ λgateLgate
(4)
Here, g(pint
t ) is a gate conditioned on the interaction-phase probability, and Lgate regularizes the
gate distribution. This design allows the policy to rely on global visual guidance during the motion
phase and adaptively strengthen proximity feedback during the interaction phase, producing more
stable contact-aware actions throughout dexterous manipulation.
4.4
Dynamics-Consistency Guided Policy Inference
During online inference, we combine the policy with the forward dynamics model FDM(·) to form a
closed-loop controller with physical consistency checking, as shown in Fig. 3. At each time step, the
5


Figure 3: Overview of the Policy Inference Pipeline with Dynamics Consistency Guidance.
Table 1: Simulation results on dexterous manipulation benchmarks. We evaluate all methods on
Adroit, DexArt, and three self-designed IsaacLab tasks.
Algorithm\Task
Obs.
Pretrain
Adroit 3 Tasks
DexArt 4 Tasks
Self-Designed 3 Tasks
Avg.
DP3 [11]
PC
×
77.8±2.4
60.6±0.7
80.8±2.3
71.8±1.7
ManiFlow [26]
PC
×
78.6±2.3
63.3±2.7
84.4±1.9
74.2±2.3
AFRO [28]
PC
✓
84.0±2.8
64.7±2.5
86.0±1.5
76.9±2.3
CordViP [1]
Int.PC
×
85.6±2.3
71.8±1.8
88.8±1.6
81.0±1.9
ProxiDex (Ours)
Int.PC
✓
90.3±1.4
73.7±2.2
91.1±1.7
83.9±1.8
observation encoder Eθ extracts the latent variable zobs
t
from the real-time interaction point cloud
op
t and robot state st, and estimates the current proximity latent feature ˆzprox
t
through the IDM(·).
The trajectory head then outputs the interaction probability pint
t , which adaptively modulates the
proximity branch. The policy generates an action sequence conditioned on zobs
t
, ˆzprox
t
, and pint
t , and
executes it in a receding-horizon manner.
To handle occlusion or short-term perception failure, the system uses FDM(·) to predict the next
latent variable and computes the dynamics deviation between the prediction and the real observation:
edyn
t+1 =
zobs
t+1 −FDM(zobs
t
, at)

2
(5)
When edyn
t+1 ≤τdyn, ProxiDex regards real-time visual feedback as reliable and updates the policy
state with the perceived latent observation. Otherwise, it switches to dynamics-dream mode, where
action generation is maintained using latent variables autoregressively predicted by FDM(·). The
system returns to regular closed-loop inference once the deviation edyn
t+1 falls below the threshold
τdyn. In deployment, FoundationPose++ runs at around 10 Hz, the proximity policy at about 28
Hz, and FDM(·) at about 20 Hz, which is sufficient for receding-horizon inference; implementation
details are given in Appendix B.3.
5
Experiments
We evaluate ProxiDex in both simulation and real-world settings, focusing on two aspects: (i)
whether interaction point clouds and proximity cues can improve dexterous manipulation perfor-
mance; (ii) whether the learned interaction dynamics can maintain stable control under disturbances.
5.1
Simulation Experiments
Setup. We evaluate ProxiDex on 10 multi-finger tasks from Adroit [41], DexArt [42], and our
customized IsaacLab environments [43]. Demonstrations for Adroit and DexArt are generated by
reinforcement-learning experts, while customized tasks are collected through VR teleoperation. For
each task, we collect 30 high-quality demonstrations covering representative hand–object contact
patterns. Since object poses are directly available in simulation, we can accurately generate inter-
action point clouds op
t and region-level proximity features oprox
t
, as visualized in Appendix Fig. 21.
Further details are provided in Appendices C.1 and C.2.
6


Baselines. We compare ProxiDex with four representative 3D point cloud policies. DP3 [11] and
ManiFlow [26] use camera scene point clouds (PC) for end-to-end action prediction. AFRO [28]
uses the same input with dynamics pretraining to evaluate the effect of latent dynamics. CordViP
[1] adopts reconstructed interaction point clouds (Int.PC) and an arm-coordinated denoising policy.
Results. Table 1 summarizes the benchmark-level performance averaged over the evaluated tasks.
ProxiDex achieves the best performance on all three task groups, reaching an overall success rate
of 83.9% and outperforming DP3, ManiFlow, AFRO, and CordViP by 12.1, 9.7, 7.0, and 2.9 per-
centage points, respectively. On Adroit, DexArt, and our customized IsaacLab tasks, ProxiDex
obtains 90.3%, 73.7%, and 91.1% success rates, exceeding CordViP by 4.7, 1.9, and 2.3 percentage
points. Since CordViP also uses interaction point clouds, these gains mainly come from model-
ing fine-grained hand–object proximity and its temporal evolution. This is especially beneficial for
contact-sensitive tasks such as Pen and Driller, where the policy must continuously adjust fingertip
placement and wrist pose after contact under occlusion and object motion.
Figure 4: Ablation on Success Rate.
Ablation on Task Success Rate.
To further analyze
the contribution of each core component to task suc-
cess, Fig. 4 presents task-wise ablations on six represen-
tative Adroit and DexArt tasks. ProxiDex performs best
across all tasks, showing the joint benefit of interaction-
centric representation and dynamics-aware policy learn-
ing. Removing proximity cues or replacing interaction
point clouds with camera-observed scene point clouds
causes clear drops, especially on contact-sensitive tasks
such as Bucket and Pen, highlighting the importance of
explicit hand–object interaction geometry under occlu-
sion. Removing FDM, IDM, or closed-loop dynamics
checking also reduces task success, indicating that latent dynamics modeling and online verifica-
tion help improve execution stability during contact-rich manipulation.
Figure 5: Ablation on Occlusion.
Ablation on Occlusion Robustness.
To evaluate
component contributions to occlusion robustness, we
introduce a cuboid occluder into the depth-camera
view for 2, 4, and 6 s, and measure recovery success on
the Adroit Pen task. As shown in Fig. 5, full ProxiDex
achieves 80% and 72% recovery under 2-s and 4-s oc-
clusions. Removing FDM causes the largest drop, as
future-latent prediction and dynamics takeover are no
longer available. Without IDM, hand–object proxim-
ity is harder to recover from latent transitions, reducing
success to 71% and 59%. Removing proximity cues or
trajectory gating also weakens local interaction modeling and phase-adaptive modulation. Under 6-s
occlusion, accumulated prediction errors reduce the full model to 35% recovery.
5.2
Real-World Experiments
Setup. The real-robot platform consists of a Realman RM75B 7-DoF robotic arm, a RealSense
L515 RGB-D camera, and two dexterous hands. Specifically, a CasBot-P1L hand with 6 active
DoFs is used for the standard tabletop manipulation tasks, while a 20-DoF Wuji Hand V1 is used for
the more contact-rich manipulation tasks. As shown in Fig. 6 and Fig. 22, we design three tabletop
tasks. For each task, we collect 50 demonstrations and evaluate the policy under in-distribution
objects, unseen objects, and disturbance conditions. More details are provided in Appendix E.
Results on Tabletop Tasks. Table 2 shows that ProxiDex achieves the highest real-robot success
rate, with an overall average of 72.6%. It outperforms CordViP, AFRO, ManiFlow, and DP3 by
9.7, 19.1, 22.9, and 32.6 percentage points, respectively. ProxiDex also obtains the best or tied-best
7


Table 2: Real-robot task success counts under in-distribution, unseen-object, perturbation, and
contact-rich settings. The results show that ProxiDex achieves accurate and robust performance.
Tasks
Algorithm
In Distribution
Unseen Objects
Perturbation
Contact-Rich
Avg.
Pick
Pinch Sweep
Pick
Pinch Sweep
Pick
Pinch Sweep Twist
Flip
DP3 [11]
14/20 10/20
12/20
18/40
9/40
16/40
14/30 13/30
14/30
2/20
2/20
40.0%
ManiFlow [26] 16/20 11/20
15/20
24/40 12/40
19/40
17/30 18/30
17/30
2/20
3/20
49.7%
AFRO [28]
17/20 11/20
16/20
25/40 15/40
24/40
17/30 17/30
16/30
3/20
5/20
53.5%
CordViP [1]
18/20 13/20
17/20
29/40 21/40
27/40
19/30 19/30
18/30
6/20
8/20
62.9%
ProxiDex-1
18/20 14/20
17/20
30/40 22/40
28/40
20/30 20/30
20/30
7/20
6/20
65.2%
ProxiDex-2
18/20 14/20
18/20
31/40 23/40
28/40
21/30 22/30
21/30
8/20
7/20
68.1%
ProxiDex
19/20 15/20
18/20
32/40 24/40
29/40
22/30 23/30
22/30
10/20
11/20
72.6%
Figure 6: We introduce unseen objects, cluttered scenes, and visual occlusions into three tabletop
manipulation tasks. The results show that ProxiDex can maintain stable hand-object interaction and
complete the corresponding manipulation tasks in complex real-world scenarios.
result in nine task settings, demonstrating that the proposed interaction-centric representation and
proximity-aware policy consistently improve real-world dexterous manipulation performance.
Generalization and robustness.
Beyond the overall performance, Table 2 further shows
that ProxiDex remains effective under distribution shifts and external disturbances.
For
unseen objects,
it succeeds in 85/120 trials,
compared with 77/120 for CordViP. Un-
der perturbations, ProxiDex achieves 67/90 successful trials, while CordViP obtains 56/90.
Figure 7: Attention visualization. Av-
eraged Transformer attention weights of
point-cloud and proximity tokens across
three tabletop tasks.
These results indicate that explicit hand–object proxim-
ity modeling improves robustness to object variations and
external disturbances.
In contrast, visible-scene point-
cloud methods such as DP3 and ManiFlow degrade more
clearly in Sweep, where hand occlusion and object pose
changes make the observed scene geometry unstable.
Backbone Ablation.
To further examine whether the
gains only come from the policy backbone, the addi-
tional rows in Table 2 compare different policy backbones
within ProxiDex.
ProxiDex-1 with a U-Net backbone
and ProxiDex-2 with a standard Transformer achieve
65.2% and 68.1% average success rates. The full Prox-
iDex further improves them by 7.4 and 4.5 percentage
points, showing that the proposed backbone can empha-
size hand–object proximity at critical contact moments.
As shown in Fig. 7, the interaction-phase probability is
8


used to adaptively adjust the attention weights between proximity and point-cloud tokens, allowing
the policy to emphasize hand-object proximity at critical interaction moments.
Figure 8:
ProxiDex performance and
interaction point-cloud visualization on
contact-rich tasks.
Contact-Rich Task Analysis. We further evaluate two
contact-rich tasks involving sustained finger–object in-
teraction and object reorientation. As shown in Fig. 8,
ProxiDex maintains stable interaction representations
and completes complex in-hand manipulation even un-
der short-term visual occlusion. The interaction point
cloud provides local hand–object geometry, while dy-
namics prediction preserves interaction-state continu-
ity when visual feedback becomes temporarily unreli-
able. As shown in Table 2, ProxiDex achieves the best
performance on both contact-rich tasks, indicating that
their combination improves stability during sustained
contact and object reorientation.
Figure 9: (a) P1L hand with tactile arrays.
(b) Proximity–tactile comparison.
Comparison with Real Tactile Sensing. To compare
proximity with real tactile feedback, each fingertip of
the P1L hand is equipped with a 2 × 4 tactile array. As
shown in Fig. 9, proximity achieves competitive task
performance compared with tactile sensing. Although
proximity cannot replace force feedback, it captures
changes in hand–object distance and spatial distribu-
tion before and around contact, providing useful geo-
metric cues for pre-grasp adjustment and subsequent
contact establishment.
6
Conclusion
We presented ProxiDex, a proximity-policy learning framework for dexterous manipulation. Prox-
iDex constructs region-level proximity representations from reconstructed hand–object interaction
point clouds and further learns action-conditioned latent interaction dynamics to guide trajectory-
adaptive policy learning and closed-loop inference. By jointly modeling local hand–object geometry
and its dynamic evolution, ProxiDex supports stable policy execution under short-term unreliable vi-
sual feedback, sustained contact, and complex object interactions. Simulation and real-world exper-
iments show consistent performance across standard, unseen-object, disturbance, visual-occlusion,
and contact-rich settings. Overall, these results demonstrate that ProxiDex provides a robust and
physically meaningful interaction modeling framework for dexterous manipulation.
7
Limitations
Although ProxiDex shows strong stability, it still has several limitations. First, it depends on ac-
curate object reconstruction and real-time pose tracking, which may be unreliable for small com-
ponents, articulated objects, or high-precision manipulation. Second, dynamics takeover is mainly
effective for short-term perception failures, while prolonged occlusion can accumulate autoregres-
sive prediction errors and reduce control reliability. Finally, the current proximity representation
remains geometry-driven and cannot measure real contact forces or precise fingertip force distri-
butions. Future work will combine improved pose estimation, real tactile sensing, and large-scale
human manipulation videos to enhance long-horizon recovery and fine-grained contact modeling.
9


Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the Hebei Provincial Science and Technology Plan Project under Grant
No. 25241802D, the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 62303457, and
the New Generation Artificial Intelligence-National Science and Technology Major Project under
Grant No. 2025ZD0122900.
References
[1] Y. Fu, Q. Feng, N. Chen, Z. Zhou, M. Liu, M. Wu, T. Chen, S. Rong, J. Liu, H. Dong, et al.
Cordvip: Correspondence-based visuomotor policy for dexterous manipulation in real-world.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.08449, 2025.
[2] Y. Bai, F. Chen, H. Sun, Y. Tong, E. Li, and Z. Zhang. Far-dex: Few-shot data augmen-
tation and adaptive residual policy refinement for dexterous manipulation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.10451, 2026.
[3] Y. Qin, B. Huang, Z.-H. Yin, H. Su, and X. Wang. Dexpoint: Generalizable point cloud rein-
forcement learning for sim-to-real dexterous manipulation. In Conference on Robot Learning,
pages 594–605. PMLR, 2023.
[4] Z. Xu, Y. Wang, B. Abbatematteo, J. Preechayasomboon, S. Chan, N. Colonnese, and A. H.
Memar.
Contact-grounded policy: Dexterous visuotactile policy with generative contact
grounding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.05687, 2026.
[5] A. Handa, K. Van Wyk, W. Yang, J. Liang, Y.-W. Chao, Q. Wan, S. Birchfield, N. Ratliff, and
D. Fox. Dexpilot: Vision-based teleoperation of dexterous robotic hand-arm system. In 2020
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 9164–9170. IEEE,
2020.
[6] A. Iyer, Z. Peng, Y. Dai, I. Guzey, S. Haldar, S. Chintala, and L. Pinto. Open teach: A versatile
teleoperation system for robotic manipulation. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2372–
2395. PMLR, 2025.
[7] B. Huang, Y. Wang, X. Yang, Y. Luo, and Y. Li. 3d-vitac: Learning fine-grained manipulation
with visuo-tactile sensing. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2557–2578. PMLR, 2025.
[8] J. Ren, J. Zou, and G. Gu. Mc-tac: Modular camera-based tactile sensor for robot gripper. In
International Conference on Intelligent Robotics and Applications, pages 169–179. Springer,
2023.
[9] T. Z. Zhao, V. Kumar, S. Levine, and C. Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual manipulation
with low-cost hardware. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13705, 2023.
[10] C. Chi, Z. Xu, S. Feng, E. Cousineau, Y. Du, B. Burchfiel, R. Tedrake, and S. Song. Diffusion
policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion. The International Journal of Robotics
Research, 44(10-11):1684–1704, 2025.
[11] Y. Ze, G. Zhang, K. Zhang, C. Hu, M. Wang, and H. Xu. 3d diffusion policy: Generalizable
visuomotor policy learning via simple 3d representations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.03954,
2024.
[12] J. Li, T. Wu, J. Zhang, Z. Chen, H. Jin, M. Wu, Y. Shen, Y. Yang, and H. Dong. Adaptive visuo-
tactile fusion with predictive force attention for dexterous manipulation. In 2025 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 3232–3239, 2025.
[13] T. Wu, J. Li, J. Zhang, M. Wu, and H. Dong. Canonical representation and force-based pre-
training of 3d tactile for dexterous visuo-tactile policy learning. In 2025 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 6786–6792, 2025.
10


[14] Z. K. Weng. Hand tracking streamer: Meta quest vr app for motion capture and teleoperation,
2026. URL https://githu.com/wengmister/hand-tracking-streamer.
[15] H. Fang, C. Wang, Y. Wang, J. Chen, S. Xia, J. Lv, Z. He, X. Yi, Y. Guo, X. Zhan, et al.
Airexo-2: Scaling up generalizable robotic imitation learning with low-cost exoskeletons. In
Conference on Robot Learning, pages 198–220. PMLR, 2025.
[16] H. Zhang, S. Hu, Z. Yuan, and H. Xu. Doglove: Dexterous manipulation with a low-cost
open-source haptic force feedback glove. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07730, 2025.
[17] R. Wen, J. Zhang, G. Chen, Z. Cui, M. Du, Y. Gou, Z. Han, J. Hu, L. Huang, H. Niu, et al. Dex-
terous teleoperation of 20-dof bytedexter hand via human motion retargeting. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2507.03227, 2025.
[18] K. Li, S. M. Wagh, N. Sharma, S. Bhadani, W. Chen, C. Liu, and P. Kormushev. Haptic-
act: Bridging human intuition with compliant robotic manipulation via immersive vr. In 2025
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 1084–
1091. IEEE, 2025.
[19] Y. Qin, W. Yang, B. Huang, K. Van Wyk, H. Su, X. Wang, Y.-W. Chao, and D. Fox.
Anyteleop: A general vision-based dexterous robot arm-hand teleoperation system.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.04577, 2023.
[20] X. Cheng, J. Li, S. Yang, G. Yang, and X. Wang. Open-television: Teleoperation with im-
mersive active visual feedback. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2729–2749. PMLR,
2025.
[21] R. Ding, Y. Qin, J. Zhu, C. Jia, S. Yang, R. Yang, X. Qi, and X. Wang. Bunny-visionpro: Real-
time bimanual dexterous teleoperation for imitation learning. In 2025 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 12248–12255. IEEE, 2025.
[22] M. Xu, H. Zhang, Y. Hou, Z. Xu, L. Fan, M. Veloso, and S. Song.
Dexumi: Using hu-
man hand as the universal manipulation interface for dexterous manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.21864, 2025.
[23] T. Tao, M. K. Srirama, J. J. Liu, K. Shaw, and D. Pathak. Dexwild: Dexterous human interac-
tions for in-the-wild robot policies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.07813, 2025.
[24] H. Chen, T. Dong, T. Wu, L. Wang, Y. Jangir, Y. Niu, Y. Ye, H. Bharadhwaj, Z. Erickson,
and J. Ichnowski. Dexterous manipulation policies from rgb human videos via 3d hand-object
trajectory reconstruction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.09013, 2026.
[25] J. Mu, S. Yang, Y. Bao, H. Bae, T. Wei, L. Xu, B. Li, H. Xu, and J. Pang.
Deximit:
Learning bimanual dexterous manipulation from monocular human videos. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2602.10105, 2026.
[26] G. Yan, J. Zhu, Y. Deng, S. Yang, R.-Z. Qiu, X. Cheng, M. Memmel, R. Krishna, A. Goyal,
X. Wang, et al. Maniflow: A general robot manipulation policy via consistency flow training.
In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2268–2293. PMLR, 2025.
[27] Y. Fang, X. Zhang, H. Cheng, X. Zang, R. Song, and J. Zhao. Flow policy: Generalizable
visuomotor policy learning via flow matching. IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics,
2025.
[28] Q. Liang, B. Cai, M. Lai, S. Zhuang, T. Lin, Y. Qin, Y. Ye, J. Liang, and R. Xu.
Boot-
strap dynamic-aware 3d visual representation for scalable robot learning.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2512.00074, 2025.
11


[29] J. Lyu, K. Liu, X. Zhang, H. Liao, Y. Feng, W. Zhu, T. Shen, J. Chen, J. Zhang, Y. Dong, et al.
Lda-1b: Scaling latent dynamics action model via universal embodied data ingestion. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2602.12215, 2026.
[30] Y. Zheng, S. Gu, W. Li, Y. Zheng, Y. Zang, S. Tian, X. Li, C. Hao, C. Gao, S. Liu, et al.
Omnivta: Visuo-tactile world modeling for contact-rich robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.19201, 2026.
[31] C. Higuera, S. Arnaud, B. Boots, M. Mukadam, F. R. Hogan, and F. Meier. Visuo-tactile world
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.06001, 2026.
[32] H. Yuan, W. Yi, Z. Zhang, W. Chen, Y. Mo, J. Yin, X. Li, X. Zeng, C. Wen, C. Lu, et al. Vtam:
Video-tactile-action models for complex physical interaction beyond vlas.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.23481, 2026.
[33] Y. Zheng, J. Lyu, Y. Zhang, J. Chen, M. Yan, Y. Deng, X. Shi, X. Zhao, Y. Wang, Z. Zhang,
et al. Emerging extrinsic dexterity in cluttered scenes via dynamics-aware policy learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.09882, 2026.
[34] Z. Hong, Y. Liu, H. Hou, B. Ai, J. Wang, T. Mu, Y. Qin, J. Gu, and H. Su. Learning particle-
based world model from human for robot dexterous manipulation. In 3rd RSS Workshop on
Dexterous Manipulation: Learning and Control with Diverse Data, 2025.
[35] Z. He, B. Ai, T. Mu, Y. Liu, W. Wan, J. Fu, Y. Du, H. I. Christensen, and H. Su. Scaling cross-
embodiment world models for dexterous manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.01177,
2025.
[36] T. Ren, S. Liu, A. Zeng, J. Lin, K. Li, H. Cao, J. Chen, X. Huang, Y. Chen, F. Yan, et al.
Grounded sam: Assembling open-world models for diverse visual tasks.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.14159, 2024.
[37] X. Chen, F.-J. Chu, P. Gleize, K. J. Liang, A. Sax, H. Tang, W. Wang, M. Guo, T. Hardin,
X. Li, et al. Sam 3d: 3dfy anything in images. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.16624, 2025.
[38] W. Yan and J. Chu. FoundationPose++, Mar. 2025. URL https://github.com/teal024/
FoundationPose-plus-plus.
[39] Z. Wei, Z. Xu, J. Guo, Y. Hou, C. Gao, Z. Cai, J. Luo, and L. Shao. D(R, O) Grasp: A Unified
Representation of Robot and Object Interaction for Cross-Embodiment Dexterous Grasping. In
2025 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 4982–4988.
IEEE, 2025.
[40] W. Peebles and S. Xie. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision, pages 4195–4205, 2023.
[41] A. Rajeswaran, V. Kumar, A. Gupta, G. Vezzani, J. Schulman, E. Todorov, and S. Levine.
Learning complex dexterous manipulation with deep reinforcement learning and demonstra-
tions. arXiv preprint arXiv:1709.10087, 2017.
[42] C. Bao, H. Xu, Y. Qin, and X. Wang. Dexart: Benchmarking generalizable dexterous manip-
ulation with articulated objects. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 21190–21200, 2023.
[43] M. Mittal, P. Roth, J. Tigue, A. Richard, O. Zhang, P. Du, A. Serrano-Munoz, X. Yao,
R. Zurbr¨ugg, N. Rudin, et al. Isaac lab: A gpu-accelerated simulation framework for multi-
modal robot learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.04831, 2025.
12


Supplementary Material for ProxiDex
This supplementary material provides additional details on data acquisition, latent dynamics model-
ing, policy learning, and experimental protocols. It is organized as follows:
• Appendix A Proximity-guided data acquisition and geometric representation.
• Appendix B Training and closed-loop inference details of ProxiDex.
• Appendix C Simulation setup and qualitative analysis.
• Appendix D Additional experiments and ablation studies.
• Appendix E Real-world experiment setup and evaluation protocol.
A
Proximity-Guided Data Acquisition and Geometric Representation
A.1
VR Teleoperation and Action Retargeting
Arm teleoperation. We use incremental inverse kinematics (IK) to retarget VR wrist motion to the
robot end-effector. The system [14] first records the initial VR wrist position xinit and the initial
robot end-effector position xhome. At runtime, it computes the displacement of the current VR wrist
position xvr relative to the calibrated origin, and maps this displacement into the robot base frame
using a scale vector S and a coordinate retargeting matrix Rmap:
xtarget = xhome + Rmap (S ◦(xvr −xinit)) ,
(6)
where S is an anisotropic scaling vector, Rmap aligns the VR coordinate frame with the robot base
frame, and ◦denotes element-wise multiplication. The target pose is solved by numerical inverse
kinematics under joint-limit and redundancy constraints, and the resulting joint commands are sent
to the Realman RM75B arm through the low-level controller.
For orientation control, the system uses quaternion increments to synchronize the VR wrist orien-
tation and the robot end-effector orientation. Let qvr be the current VR wrist orientation, qinit the
initial calibrated orientation, and qhome the initial robot end-effector orientation. The target orienta-
tion is
∆q = qvr ⊗q−1
init,
qtarget = qhome ⊗∆q.
(7)
The Cartesian target is passed to a numerical IK solver in PyBullet, which computes joint commands
under 7-DoF redundancy and joint-limit constraints. The resulting commands are synchronized to
the RealMan RM75B arm through CAN-FD, enabling low-latency spatial following.
Dexterous-hand teleoperation. The VR detector provides 21 hand keypoints ui [14]. We nor-
malize them by removing the wrist translation and applying a scale factor, i.e., ˜ui = η(ui −u0),
followed by a handedness correction when needed. A local wrist frame is estimated from the wrist
and finger-root keypoints, and the normalized keypoints are reprojected into a canonical hand coor-
dinate system. This step reduces differences among operators and provides a consistent geometric
input for retargeting.
The retargeting problem converts human-hand topology into robot joint commands. We construct
target vector flows ˆvk that describe the relative geometry of the human fingers and solve for the robot
joint configuration q∗
t by minimizing
q∗
t = arg min
q
X
k
wkρδ
 ∥rk(q) −ˆvk∥2
2

+ λ∥q −qt−1∥2
2.
(8)
Here, ρδ is the Huber loss for robustness to keypoint noise, and the second term regularizes temporal
smoothness by penalizing abrupt joint changes. We further introduce a DexPilot-style grasp prior
projection [5] and update the projection state with threshold hysteresis, improving fingertip closure
while reducing hand jitter.
13


Figure 10: VR teleoperation pipeline in ProxiDex, where OpenXR hand keypoints and wrist poses
are streamed to a workstation for hand–arm control, and the reconstructed hand–object interaction
point cloud is sent back to the headset as optional proximity feedback for immersive teleoperation.
The teleoperation loop is sufficiently responsive for real-time operation. TCP hand-joint commands
are transmitted at approximately 30 Hz, object-pose detection runs at around 10 Hz, and the interac-
tion point-cloud stream is updated at about 23 Hz. These rates allow the operator to receive timely
visual and proximity feedback during manipulation, as summarized in Fig. 10. In particular, when
direct visual observation is degraded by hand-object occlusions, the proximity feedback provides
an augmented-reality style cue that helps the operator perceive the hand-object distance and adjust
the manipulation process more intuitively. With the teleoperation stream defined, the next step is
to convert the reconstructed object geometry into a metric-scale representation for distance-based
proximity computation.
A.2
Object Reconstruction and Metric-Scale Calibration
We further detail how ProxiDex reconstructs occlusion-free hand-object interaction point clouds
from demonstration data. We first use Grounded-SAM[36] to segment the target object from the
initial RGB observation, and then reconstruct the target mesh Mo using SAM3D[37]. Monocu-
lar reconstruction can complete invisible regions and provide a full geometric prior, but its output
usually lacks reliable metric scale. Therefore, before using the mesh for interaction point-cloud syn-
thesis and proximity computation, we perform scale calibration through the following procedure.
For each object, the system captures one aligned RealSense RGB-D observation and estimates a
scale factor κ from the depth map. Given an RGB image, a metric depth map, and camera intrinsics,
Grounded-SAM first produces the target object mask. Valid depth pixels inside the mask are then
back-projected into the camera frame:
p(u, v) =
(u −cx)d
fx
, (v −cy)d
fy
, d

,
(9)
where (u, v) denotes pixel coordinates, d is the depth value, and (cx, cy) and (fx, fy) are the princi-
pal point and focal lengths. After removing statistical outliers from the back-projected object point
cloud, we compute its oriented bounding-box size ergbd.
We also load the vertices of the OBJ mesh reconstructed by SAM3D and compute its oriented
bounding-box size eobj. To avoid axis-order effects in scale estimation, both size vectors are sorted
before comparison:
r = sort(ergbd)
sort(eobj) .
(10)
The final uniform scale coefficient is κ = median(r), which is applied to the mesh vertices. This
calibration preserves the shape-completion advantage of SAM3D while grounding subsequent dis-
tance calculations in metric geometry. Using the median of the sorted axis ratios also reduces sensi-
tivity to a single noisy bounding-box dimension, which can appear when the RGB-D mask contains
small boundary artifacts. The calibrated mesh therefore provides a stable object surface for the
region-level proximity computation described next.
14


Table 3: Input data specifications across simulation and real-world environments.
Environment
Input Setting
Point-Cloud Input
Auxiliary Input
Action Dim.
Horizon / Notes
Simulation Environments
Adroit
Scene Point Cloud
[512, 3] point cloud
[24] low dim state
28
nobs
Adroit
Interaction Point Cloud
[3 × 512, 3] point cloud
[24] low dim state
28
N = 3, including hand and object
DexArt
Scene Point Cloud
[1024, 3] point cloud
[32] low dim state
22
nobs
DexArt
Interaction Point Cloud
[2 × 1024, 3] point cloud
[32] low dim state
22
N = 2, including hand and object
IsaacLab
Scene Point Cloud
[1024, 3] point cloud
[18] low dim state
18
nobs
IsaacLab
Interaction Point Cloud
[N × 1024, 3] point cloud
[18] low dim state
18
N = 2 for Box and N = 3 for other tasks
Real-World Environment
Real World
Scene Point Cloud
[512, 3] point cloud
[13] low dim state
13
nobs
Real World
Interaction Point Cloud
[N × 512, 3] point cloud
[13] low dim state
13
N = 3 for Sweep and N = 2 for other tasks
A.3
Geometric Proximity Representation
Given the metrically calibrated object mesh, the system samples points from the surfaces of object
mesh and hand URDF links, and transforms them into the robot base frame using the object 6D pose
tracked by FoundationPose++ [38] and robot forward kinematics. This yields the object point cloud
P o
t and the hand point cloud P h
t . The interaction point cloud at frame t is defined as op
t = P o
t ∪P h
t .
Compared with a raw scene point cloud, this representation explicitly preserves the relative geometry
between the hand and object while reducing the influence of background points and self-occlusion.
Proximity is computed from geometric distances between the hand and object point clouds, without
assuming any specific tactile sensor. For each hand sample ph
i ∈P h
t , we first compute its nearest-
neighbor distance to the object point cloud:
dnn
i
= min
po
j ∈P o
t
ph
i −po
j

2
(11)
In practice, small geometric interpenetrations may occur due to pose-tracking noise, calibration
errors, or simplified hand/object meshes. Since the proximity representation is intended to de-
scribe near-field interaction rather than penetration depth, we treat such cases as saturated contact
responses. Specifically, using the signed distance field ϕO(·) of the object mesh, where negative
values indicate points inside the object, the effective distance is clipped as
di =
dnn
i ,
ϕO(ph
i ) ≥0,
0,
ϕO(ph
i ) < 0.
(12)
This prevents occasional interpenetration artifacts from producing unstable proximity values while
preserving consistent contact cues for policy learning. A Gaussian kernel then maps the effective
distance to a normalized proximity response:
ηi = exp
 
−1
2
di
σ
2!
,
ηi ∈[0, 1],
(13)
where σ controls the decay sensitivity. For VR visualization, ηi can be mapped to the hand point
color ci = cbase + ηi(chot −cbase), providing proximity guidance related to object distance. For
policy training, we record the full op
t and proximity observation to maintain input consistency.
To obtain structured learning inputs, we group hand samples according to physical hand regions Sk,
such as the palm, finger roots, and fingertips. Let Ik = {i | ph
i ∈Sk} be the set of sample indices
belonging to region Sk. The region-level proximity is
γk
t =
1
|Ik|
X
i∈Ik
ηi.
(14)
The proximity observation at frame t is therefore
oprox
t
= [γ1
t , . . . , γK
t ].
(15)
We further derive the trajectory-stage label from the palm response:
otraj
t
= I(γpalm
t
> τpalm),
(16)
15


where otraj
t
= 0 denotes the approach stage and otraj
t
= 1 denotes the contact-interaction stage. Each
demonstration frame is finally stored as (op
t , oprox
t
, otraj
t
, st, at), consistent with the notation in the
main paper. The concrete input dimensions of scene point clouds, interaction point clouds, auxiliary
states, and actions across simulation and real-world environments are summarized in Table 3. In this
representation, op
t keeps the complete hand–object geometry, oprox
t
compresses near-field distances
into physically meaningful hand-region responses, and otraj
t
provides a coarse phase indicator. This
separation is used in the following training stage, where the latent observation is explicitly aligned
with proximity dynamics rather than only with visible geometry.
B
Training and Inference Details of ProxiDex
ProxiDex is trained in two stages. The first stage learns a proximity-aware dynamics representa-
tion from interaction point clouds, robot states, and region-level proximity cues. The second stage
freezes this representation and trains a Transformer-based diffusion policy, in which the predicted
trajectory-stage probability adaptively modulates the proximity branch. This design allows the pol-
icy to emphasize global geometry during approach and exploit local proximity cues during dexterous
manipulation. All training and inference are conducted on an Intel i9-14700K CPU and an NVIDIA
RTX 4090D GPU.
B.1
Latent Interaction Dynamics Architecture
Given the interaction point cloud op
t and robot state st, the observation encoder Eθ extracts geomet-
ric features and fuses them with the state embedding to obtain the observation latent zobs
t
. This latent
is shared by the forward dynamics model (FDM), inverse differential module (IDM), and trajectory
head in Stage 1, and is subsequently used as the global condition for policy generation in Stage 2.
Before learning the interaction dynamics, we independently pretrain a proximity variational au-
toencoder (VAE) for 100 epochs to compress the region-level proximity observation oprox
t
into a
compact latent representation. The encoder parameterizes a Gaussian posterior, while the decoder
reconstructs the original proximity observation. In our implementation, the proximity input and la-
tent dimensions are 124 and 16, respectively. The VAE is optimized using a reconstruction loss and
a KL-divergence regularizer:
Lvae = λrec ∥ˆoprox
t
−oprox
t
∥2
2 + λKLDKL (q(zprox
t
| oprox
t
) ∥N(0, I)) ,
(17)
where λrec = 1.0 and λKL = 0.01. After pretraining, the VAE is frozen, and its posterior mean
µprox(oprox
t
) is used as a deterministic proximity target for interaction dynamics learning.
The forward dynamics model FDM(·) is implemented as a DiT-style conditional denoising model
that predicts future observation features after action execution. Specifically, the future observation
latent is perturbed and then denoised conditioned on the current latent and action sequence:
˜zobs,(ℓ)
t+h
= √¯αℓzobs
t+h +
√
1 −¯αℓϵ,
ˆzobs
t+h = fθ

˜zobs,(ℓ)
t+h
, ℓ| zobs
t
, at:t+h−1

,
(18)
where ℓdenotes the diffusion step and ϵ is Gaussian noise. This forward-prediction objective en-
courages zobs
t
to encode not only object geometry and hand configuration, but also short-horizon
interaction dynamics associated with approach, grasping, and contact transfer.
To connect the predicted state transition with local geometric proximity, ProxiDex introduces the
inverse differential module IDM(·), implemented as an MLP with layer normalization and nonlinear
activations. For one-step prediction, IDM maps the change in observation latent to the next-step
proximity latent, which is aligned with the deterministic target provided by the frozen VAE:
ˆzprox
t+1 = IDM
 ˆzobs
t+1 −zobs
t

,
Linv =
ˆzprox
t+1 −µprox
 oprox
t+1
2
2 .
(19)
16


Table 4: Key training and model hyperparameters for the Interaction Dynamics Model.
Parameter
Symbol
Value
Policy and Diffusion Settings
Policy Horizon
T
16
Observation Horizon
To
4
Action Horizon
Ta
8
Diffusion Training Timesteps
K
100
Dynamics and Proximity Modeling
Point-Cloud Feature Dimension
dp
128
Future Prediction Steps
Hdyn
2
Proximity Latent Dimension
dprox
16
Action Embedding Dimension
da
16
FDM Hidden Dimension
dfdm
256
Proximity VAE Pretraining Epochs
–
100
Action Dropout / Negative Sampling Probability
–
0.1 / 0.1
Stage-1 Loss Weights
–
λv = λf = λc = λt = 1.0
Stage-2 Loss Weights
–
λdiff = 1.0, λgate = 0.001
Reconstruction / KL Weights
–
λrec = 1.0, λKL = 0.01
Optimization Settings
Optimizer
–
AdamW
Training Epochs
–
301
Batch Size
–
64
Learning Rate
–
5 × 10−5
Weight Decay
–
1 × 10−6
Learning Rate Schedule
–
Cosine
This alignment encourages the observation-latent transition to preserve action-induced changes in
hand–object proximity and enables IDM to infer implicit proximity information from visual and
robot-state dynamics.
In parallel, the trajectory-stage head predicts the interaction probability pint
t
from zobs
t
and is super-
vised by otraj
t
, as defined in Appendix A.3. Together, forward prediction, proximity-latent align-
ment, and trajectory-stage classification produce a physically meaningful interaction representation
for downstream control.
As summarized in Table 4, the point-cloud feature and proximity latent dimensions are 128 and 16,
respectively. The dynamics branch uses a hidden dimension of 256 and a short prediction horizon
Hdyn = 2, allowing it to capture immediate action-induced interaction changes while limiting long-
horizon prediction errors. Stage-1 training spans 301 epochs in total. We first pretrain the proximity
VAE for 100 epochs. The VAE is then frozen, and the observation encoder, FDM, IDM, and trajec-
tory head are trained for the remaining 201 epochs. The forward-dynamics, proximity-alignment,
and trajectory-stage losses are assigned equal weights.
B.2
Trajectory-Adaptive Proximity Policy Learning
The Stage-2 policy backbone is a Transformer-based diffusion model. The policy is trained using
VAE-derived proximity latents, whereas IDM-estimated proximity latents are used during online
deployment. It takes a noised action sequence as input and denoises it under two types of conditions:
the observation latent zobs
t
, which provides global information such as target geometry, object pose,
and hand configuration; and the proximity latent zprox
t
, which provides local distance cues between
hand regions and the object surface. To avoid overusing local feedback before contact, we gate the
proximity branch according to the interaction probability pint
t
predicted by the trajectory-stage head
in Stage 1:
¯zprox
t
= g(pint
t
)zprox
t
,
g(p) = 1 −α + αp,
α ∈[0, 1].
(20)
17


Table 5: Key training and model hyperparameters for the Proximity Policy.
Parameter
Symbol
Value
Policy and Diffusion Settings
Policy Horizon
T
16
Observation Horizon
To
4
Action Horizon
Ta
8
Diffusion Training Timesteps
K
100
Inference Denoising Steps
–
10
Proximity Policy Modeling
Point-Cloud Feature Dimension
dp
128
Proximity Latent Dimension
dprox
16
Interaction Logit Dimension
Cint
1
Gate Warm-up Steps
Nwarm
2,000
Gate Temperature Range
τ
2.0 →0.7
Temperature Annealing Steps
Nτ
50,000
Gate Ramp-up Steps
Nα
20,000
Stage-2 Loss Weights
–
λdiff = 1.0, λgate = 10−3
Transformer Backbone
Transformer Layers
L
8
Attention Heads
H
8
Embedding Dimension
demb
256
Optimization Settings
Optimizer
–
AdamW
Training Epochs
–
301
Batch Size
–
128
Learning Rate
–
1 × 10−4
Weight Decay
–
1 × 10−6
During the first 2,000 training steps, we set pint
t
= 0.5 to stabilize policy optimization. After this
warm-up period, the interaction probability is computed as pint
t
= sigmoid(ct/τ), where ct is the
predicted interaction logit. The temperature τ is annealed from 2.0 to 0.7 over 50,000 steps, while α
is linearly increased from 0 to 1 over 20,000 steps after warm-up. This schedule gradually introduces
proximity modulation without abruptly changing the policy condition.
When pint
t
is low, the policy relies more on zobs
t
for global approach. As the interaction probability
increases, the proximity branch is strengthened, enabling the policy to refine fingertip closure, con-
tact maintenance, and release timing. To prevent the gate probability from prematurely saturating,
we introduce a negative binary-entropy regularizer:
Lgate = E

pint
t
log
 pint
t
+ ϵ

+
 1 −pint
t

log
 1 −pint
t
+ ϵ

,
Lstage2 = Ldiff + λgateLgate.
(21)
where Ldiff denotes the diffusion denoising loss and ϵ is a small constant for numerical stability.
For temporal policy generation, the proximity condition is projected into the policy embedding space
and shared across the predicted action sequence, while the observation latent remains available as
stable global context. This conditioning scheme preserves global planning ability while allowing
the interaction probability to adaptively regulate the contribution of local proximity information.
The detailed hyperparameters for proximity-adaptive policy learning are summarized in Table 5.
Overall, Stage 2 follows the same temporal window configuration as Stage 1 while using fewer
denoising steps during inference for efficient online deployment. Since the Stage-1 representation
is frozen, optimization mainly focuses on the diffusion policy and its trajectory-adaptive proximity
conditioning.
18


Algorithm 1 Dynamics-Consistency Guided Policy Inference
Input: Multimodal observations {(Pt, St)}T +1
t=0 , encoder E, forward dynamics model FDM, diffusion policy πθ, dynamics threshold
τdyn, and scaling factor α
Output: Executed action sequence {at}T
t=1
1: zobs
0
←E(P0, S0)
2: zin
0 ←zobs
0
3: Mode ←Normal
4: for t = 1 to T do
/* Observation encoding */
5:
zobs
t
←E(Pt, St)
6:
if Mode = Normal then
7:
zin
t
←zobs
t
8:
else
9:
zin
t
←ˆzobs
t
10:
end if
11:
∆zt ←zin
t −zin
t−1
/* Current proximity inference and adaptive gating */
12:
ˆzprox
t
←IDM(∆zt)
13:
pint
t
←h(zin
t )
14:
¯zprox
t
←

1 −α + αpint
t

ˆzprox
t
/* Action generation and latent dynamics prediction */
15:
at ←πθ

zin
t , ¯zprox
t

16:
Execute at via the robot controller
17:
ˆzobs
t+1 ←FDM

zin
t , at

/* Dynamics monitoring and mode switching */
18:
Receive the next observation (Pt+1, St+1)
19:
zobs
t+1 ←E(Pt+1, St+1)
20:
edyn
t+1 ←
zobs
t+1 −ˆzobs
t+1

2
21:
if edyn
t+1 ≤τdyn then
22:
Mode ←Normal
23:
zin
t+1 ←zobs
t+1
24:
else
25:
Mode ←Dream
26:
zin
t+1 ←ˆzobs
t+1
27:
end if
28: end for
B.3
Dynamics-Consistency Guided Policy Inference
During online inference, ProxiDex places policy generation and FDM prediction in the same loop.
The system encodes the real-time interaction point cloud op
t and robot state st into zobs
t
, estimates
ˆzprox
t
through IDM, and obtains pint
t
from the trajectory head. The diffusion policy then generates
an action sequence and executes actions in a receding-horizon manner.
After action execution, FDM predicts the next latent state and compares it with the encoded real
observation:
edyn
t+1 =
zobs
t+1 −FDM(zobs
t
, at)

2 .
(22)
If edyn
t+1 ≤τdyn, the system continues closed-loop control with real-time perception. If the devia-
tion exceeds the threshold, the system treats the current visual feedback as potentially affected by
occlusion, pose drift, or short-term tracking failure, and temporarily switches to dynamics takeover,
using autoregressive FDM latents to maintain action generation. Once the deviation returns below
the threshold, the system switches back to real observations and re-aligns the state.
This mechanism makes FDM both a training-time dynamics supervisor and an inference-time phys-
ical consistency checker. In deployment, FoundationPose++ provides object-pose updates at around
10 Hz, the Proximity Policy runs at about 28 Hz, and the learned world model runs at about 20 Hz.
These runtime rates are sufficient for real-time closed-loop inference, enabling dynamics takeover
to maintain action generation from predicted latents when visual pose tracking becomes temporarily
unreliable. Algorithm 1 summarizes the procedure.
19


Figure 11: Visualization of the simulation tasks. We evaluate ProxiDex on ten dexterous manipula-
tion tasks, including four DexArt tasks, three Adroit tasks, and three custom tasks built in IsaacLab.
C
Simulation Experiments
C.1
Simulation Setup and Task Description
We evaluate ProxiDex on Adroit, DexArt, and three self-designed IsaacLab tasks, as illustrated in
Fig. 11. Adroit covers classic dexterous manipulation tasks requiring fine finger coordination, such
as Hammer, Door, and Pen, while DexArt provides articulated-object interactions closer to daily
manipulation, including Laptop, Faucet, Toilet, and Bucket. Since the simulator directly provides
object poses and robot joint states, we can reliably synthesize occlusion-free interaction point clouds
op
t and compute region-level proximity observations oprox
t
. The interaction point clouds are visual-
ized in Fig. 21, showing that they preserve active hand–object regions throughout manipulation.
The self-designed tasks are defined as follows:
• Box. The robot grasps a box-like object with multiple fingers and places it into a basket.
This task evaluates grasp stability and collision-free transport around the basket rim.
• Driller. The robot side-grasps a drill and moves the drill tip above a target hole. This task
requires stable tool orientation and accurate alignment after long-range motion.
• Banana. The robot pinches a banana-like object using the thumb and index finger and
places it into a bowl. This task is sensitive to fingertip closure timing, contact location, and
holding stability.
Together, these tasks cover rigid-object grasping, articulated-object manipulation, tool alignment,
and fine fingertip pinching. The implementation details below keep the data split and evaluation
protocol consistent across all methods, so that the comparisons isolate the effect of interaction point
clouds, proximity features, and dynamics modeling.
C.2
Simulation Implementation Details
For Adroit and DexArt, demonstrations are generated by reinforcement-learning experts, while the
self-designed IsaacLab demonstrations are collected through VR teleoperation. All methods use the
same demonstration split, action horizon, and evaluation protocol. We report the mean success rate
and standard deviation across repeated evaluations. Fig. 11 visualizes the ten simulation tasks before
the quantitative comparison, and Table 6 provides the corresponding task-level results.
The detailed task-level results in Table 6 further support the overall advantage of ProxiDex. Prox-
iDex achieves the best ten-task average of 83.9%, outperforming DP3, ManiFlow, AFRO, and Cord-
ViP by 12.1, 9.7, 7.0, and 2.9 percentage points, respectively. The improvement is consistent across
Adroit, DexArt, and the self-designed tasks, indicating that proximity-aware dynamics benefit both
standard dexterous benchmarks and customized tabletop manipulation scenarios.
20


Table 6: Simulation results on dexterous manipulation benchmarks. We evaluate all methods on
Adroit, DexArt, and three self-designed IsaacLab tasks.
Algorithm\Tasks
Adroit
DexArt
Self-Designed
Avg.
Hammer
Door
Pen
Laptop
Faucet
Toilet
Bucket
Box
Driller
Banana
DP3
100.0±0.0 76.7±4.7 56.7±2.6 89.7±0.9 41.7±0.5 79.7±0.9 31.3±0.5 90.3±3.2 74.3±2.6 77.8±1.2 71.8±1.7
ManiFlow
100.0±0.0 80.3±1.2 55.5±5.8 93.0±1.6 45.0±3.6 79.9±3.3 35.3±2.1 94.7±2.1 78.6±1.4 79.8±2.3 74.2±2.3
AFRO
96.0±2.8
83.8±3.4 72.3±2.1 86.3±2.5 42.3±1.8 82.2±3.4 48.0±2.3 97.2±1.3 79.4±1.5 81.4±1.8 76.9±2.3
CordViP
96.0±2.1
84.7±1.7 76.2±3.2 92.6±2.1 56.5±1.3 81.0±2.2 57.0±1.6 96.3±2.0 85.3±1.1 84.7±1.6 81.0±1.9
ProxiDex (Ours) 100.0±0.0 86.5±1.9 84.3±2.4 93.0±1.2 53.4±2.1 84.3±2.3 64.0±3.2 96.7±1.6 89.2±2.0 87.3±1.5 83.9±1.8
Figure 12: Visualization of hand–object interactions on the self-designed tasks, compared with typ-
ical failure cases from existing baselines.
A closer look at the task results shows that the gains are more evident in contact-rich tasks requir-
ing sustained fingertip adjustment, such as Pen, Bucket, Driller, and Banana. These tasks involve
continuous hand-object proximity regulation after initial contact, where the proposed proximity rep-
resentation and adaptive policy modulation provide more informative feedback than geometry-only
baselines. Although CordViP performs slightly better on Faucet, ProxiDex achieves the best aggre-
gate performance by improving tasks with more complex contact-state transitions.
Fig. 12 provides qualitative evidence complementary to the quantitative results in Table 6, compar-
ing representative executions on the self-designed tasks with typical failure cases of the baselines.
Specifically, in the Box task, baseline methods often rely on a small distal contact region and can
lose grasp stability during transport, whereas ProxiDex adjusts finger closure after approaching the
target. In Driller, visible-point-cloud methods struggle to maintain the relative relation between
the drill and the hole under occlusion; ProxiDex improves local adjustment near the hole through
proximity-difference constraints. In Banana, ProxiDex forms more suitable fingertip contact re-
gions, showing the value of region-level proximity for fine pinching.
D
Additional Experiments and Analysis
D.1
Teleoperation System Comparison
To evaluate the benefit of immersive proximity feedback, we invited 20 participants to experience the
three teleoperation systems shown in Fig. 13(c). After 10 minutes of training, participants collected
30 demonstrations under each setting. As shown in Fig. 13(a)(b), most participants found proximity
feedback helpful, and 75% preferred ProxiDex. ProxiDex also reduces the average task completion
time to 26.6 ± 5 s, outperforming the other two systems. This advantage mainly comes from more
direct interaction feedback: compared with Vanilla VR, which is susceptible to hand–object occlu-
sion, ProxiDex visualizes hand–object distances and spatial relations through color-coded proximity
point clouds, enabling timely adjustment of grasp position and finger closure and thereby improving
teleoperation experience and demonstration-collection efficiency.
21


Figure 13: User study and teleoperation-system comparison. (a) User experience and system pref-
erence. (b) Task completion time. (c) Overview of the three teleoperation systems.
Table 7: Ablation study of key components on representative dexterous manipulation tasks.
Components
Door
Pen
Laptop
Faucet
Toilet
Bucket
Avg.
w/o Prox
76.7±2.3
79.4±1.6
88.3±1.5
47.9±1.5
80.7±1.6
50.6±1.3
70.6±1.6
w/o Int. PC
80.3±1.2
75.9±2.4
86.1±1.4
48.7±1.4
80.4±1.5
48.9±2.0
70.1±1.7
w/o FDM
83.8±2.2
80.3±1.7
89.6±1.5
50.5±1.7
81.1±1.7
56.4±1.8
73.6±1.8
w/o IDM
84.7±1.7
80.9±2.1
92.3±1.7
51.8±1.3
82.0±1.8
60.1±1.5
75.3±1.7
w/o Closed-Loop
85.2±1.2
82.5±1.2
92.8±1.3
52.6±1.1
83.4±2.0
62.3±1.6
76.5±1.4
ProxiDex (Ours)
86.5±1.9
84.3±2.4
93.0±1.2
53.4±2.1
84.3±2.3
64.0±3.2
77.6±2.2
D.2
Ablation Study
Ablation on core components. Table 7 reports the task-level numerical results corresponding to
the ablation summary in Fig. 4. The largest average drops occur when geometric interaction inputs
are removed: removing interaction point clouds decreases the success rate from 77.6% to 70.1%,
while removing proximity cues decreases it to 70.6%, with drops of 7.5 and 7.0 points, respectively.
The degradation is especially clear on contact-sensitive tasks: Bucket drops by 15.1 and 13.4 points
under these two removals, while Pen drops by 8.4 points without interaction point clouds. These
results indicate that complete hand–object geometry and region-level proximity provide comple-
mentary cues for contact-rich manipulation.
From the dynamics perspective, removing FDM reduces the average success rate to 73.6%, corre-
sponding to a 4.0-point drop, while removing IDM reduces it to 75.3%, a 2.3-point drop. FDM
contributes more strongly to tasks that require predicting near-future contact consequences, whereas
IDM improves sensitivity to local proximity changes caused by actions. Removing closed-loop feed-
back yields 76.5%, a smaller but consistent 1.1-point drop. This pattern suggests that most of the
performance gain comes from representation and proximity-aware policy learning, while inference-
time dynamics checking mainly stabilizes execution when perception is temporarily unreliable.
The component-level ablation motivates a separate analysis of the Stage-2 policy architecture: after
the interaction representation is fixed, the remaining question is whether the policy backbone can
use proximity information at the correct manipulation phase.
Ablation on the policy backbone. Complementing the real-robot backbone ablation in Table 2,
Fig. 14 further evaluates the Stage-2 policy backbone in simulation while keeping Stage-1 pre-
training unchanged. Replacing the proposed causal Transformer with a U-Net reduces the average
success rate by about 3.1 percentage points, since temporal convolutions are less flexible in fusing
22


Figure 14: Policy-backbone ablation study on six Adroit and DexArt tasks. The proposed causal
Transformer with adaptive weight converges faster and achieves higher final success rates.
Table 8: Ablation study on the latent dynamics prediction horizon Hdyn.
Hdyn
Door
Pen
Laptop
Faucet
Toilet
Bucket
Avg.
1
86.8±1.7 84.0±2.2 92.6±1.5 53.3±1.9 80.7±1.6 64.1±1.8 76.9±1.8
2
86.5±1.9 84.3±2.4 93.0±1.2 53.4±2.1 84.3±2.3 64.0±3.2 77.6±2.2
4
85.9±2.0 83.6±1.9 93.0±1.5 53.7±1.4 81.1±1.7 64.3±1.9 76.9±1.7
8
84.7±1.1 82.8±1.8 92.1±1.4 53.4±1.5 82.0±1.8 63.9±1.7 76.5±1.6
10
84.8±1.2 82.6±1.3 91.8±1.1 52.8±1.3 83.4±2.0 63.2±2.0 76.4±1.5
multimodal tokens across manipulation phases. Replacing it with a standard Transformer reduces
performance by about 2.8 percentage points, showing that causal proximity masking and trajectory-
adaptive weighting are important for stable contact-aware action generation. These drops are smaller
than the 7.0–7.5 point drops caused by removing proximity cues or interaction point clouds in Ta-
ble 7, suggesting that the representation provides the primary contact information, while the back-
bone determines how effectively it is used over time.
Ablation on the latent dynamics prediction horizon. To examine how the dynamics prediction
horizon affects latent dynamics modeling, we vary Hdyn and report the results in Table 8. Hdyn = 2
achieves the best average success rate of 77.6%, slightly outperforming the other settings. Although
the differences are modest, shorter horizons provide limited supervision for contact evolution, while
overly long horizons may accumulate prediction errors and shift the dynamics objective toward
coarse trajectory fitting. We therefore use Hdyn = 2 by default, as it balances local contact sensitiv-
ity and prediction stability.
D.3
Data Scalability Evaluation
The number of demonstrations directly affects how well an imitation-learning policy covers contact
patterns. To evaluate learning efficiency under few-shot and medium-scale data regimes, we vary the
number of expert trajectories on six Adroit and DexArt tasks and compare DP3, ManiFlow, AFRO,
CordViP, and ProxiDex. The demonstration sizes are N ∈{5, 10, 20, 30, 50, 100}, and all other
training settings remain unchanged.
As shown in Fig. 15, overall success rates improve as the number of demonstrations increases,
but different methods exhibit different growth rates and saturation levels. DP3 and ManiFlow are
unstable with limited data, suggesting that policies based only on visible scene point clouds require
more samples to cover contact establishment and object-pose variation. AFRO improves sample
efficiency through dynamics pretraining, but because it lacks explicit proximity supervision, its gains
remain limited on strongly contact-driven tasks such as Bucket and Faucet. CordViP improves low-
23


Figure 15: Scalability analysis with varying numbers of expert demonstrations on Adroit and DexArt
tasks. ProxiDex consistently outperforms the baselines from 5 to 100 demonstrations, demonstrating
scalable and data-efficient learning from collected demonstrations.
Figure 16: Attention weights visualization in simulation. We visualize the trajectory probability and
averaged Transformer attention weights of point-cloud and proximity tokens across representative
Adroit and DexArt tasks.
data performance through interaction point clouds, showing that recovering occlusion-free hand-
object geometry is critical for few-shot learning.
ProxiDex achieves the highest average success rate across data scales. With 5, 10, 20, 30, 50,
and 100 demonstrations, its six-task average success rates are approximately 11.5%, 40.0%, 64.0%,
77.5%, 80.0%, and 81.8%, respectively. The largest marginal gains occur before 30 demonstrations:
the average increases by about 28.5 points from 5 to 10 demonstrations, 24.0 points from 10 to 20,
and 13.5 points from 20 to 30. After 30 demonstrations, the curve begins to saturate, gaining only 4.3
points when moving from 30 to 100 demonstrations. Thus, 30 demonstrations already recover about
94.7% of the 100-demonstration performance, indicating that proximity representation provides a
strong structured inductive bias for learning finger closure, contact maintenance, and release timing
from limited data.
D.4
Attention Visualization in Simulation
We further visualize the attention weights in simulation environments, as shown in Fig. 16. The
trajectory probability usually rises rapidly before contact or during the early contact-establishment
stage, indicating that the policy can identify the transition from approach to manipulation. Point-
cloud attention mainly reflects external geometric observations and contributes more to estimating
the target pose, hand–object configuration, and reachability, so it is more active during early motion
and pose adjustment. In contrast, proximity attention remains smoother and acts as a near-field
24


interaction modulation signal, constraining hand–object distance, contact stability, and manipulation
robustness after contact becomes likely.
This visualization is consistent with the quantitative ablations above: the point-cloud branch pro-
vides global scene context, while the proximity branch becomes most useful when the task requires
local contact refinement. Along with the change of trajectory probability, the policy adaptively bal-
ances attention between point-cloud geometry and proximity cues, leading to more stable dexterous
control during contact establishment and subsequent manipulation.
D.5
Dream-Mode Robustness Analysis
Figure 17: Dream-Mode robustness under
controlled visual occlusion.
To further characterize the stability range and error
accumulation of Dream Mode under visual interrup-
tion, we measure end-effector pose deviations from
the no-occlusion trajectory under controlled camera
occlusions. As shown in Fig. 17, a 2-s occlusion
causes only a transient deviation of about 1 cm, af-
ter which the system gradually realigns once visual
tracking recovers. In contrast, under a 5-s occlusion,
prediction error accumulates continuously: the devi-
ation grows slowly at first, but increases rapidly after
about 3.5 s to around 3 cm and further reaches about
5 cm, eventually causing arm drift and stalling. This indicates a reliable open-loop prediction hori-
zon of approximately 3.5 s, which is sufficient for brief perception interruptions but not prolonged
visual loss. This trend is also consistent with Fig. 5, where recovery performance decreases as oc-
clusion duration increases. During inference, FDM evaluates latent-dynamics consistency at 20 Hz,
and τdyn is set to the observation-feature discrepancy that first corresponds to a 1-cm end-effector
pose deviation, enabling switching between normal visual feedback and dynamics takeover.
D.6
Pose-Tracking Analysis under Motion Speed
Figure 18: Pose and point-cloud errors at
different speeds.
The
preceding
Dream-Mode
robustness
analysis
(Sec. D.5) shows that short-term hand–object occlu-
sion can be partially handled through latent prediction.
Beyond occlusion, object motion speed is another im-
portant factor affecting the quality of interaction-point-
cloud estimation. To evaluate this effect, we replay
training trajectories at different end-effector speeds
and measure the object pose-tracking error (ADD) and
point-cloud error (Chamfer distance), both in millime-
ters. As shown in Fig. 18, both errors remain low up
to 0.8 m/s, where the pose and point-cloud errors are
approximately 8 mm and 6 mm, respectively. Beyond
0.8 m/s, both errors increase rapidly and approach 50
mm at 1.2 m/s, indicating degraded rotation estimation and point-cloud alignment under fast mo-
tion. Since proximity estimation relies on accurate hand–object relative geometry, such tracking
errors directly reduce the reliability of proximity cues. Therefore, the current system is better suited
to moderate-speed contact-rich manipulation, while highly dynamic motions remain limited by real-
time pose-estimation accuracy.
25


Figure 19: Real-world platform and evaluation objects. We use a RealMan RM75B arm with a
6-active-DoF dexterous hand and a fixed Intel RealSense L515 camera, and evaluate on seen and
unseen objects with diverse shapes and sizes.
E
Real-World Experiments
E.1
Experimental Setup and Task Description
Real-robot experiments evaluate ProxiDex under real perception noise, cross-object variation, and
manipulation disturbances. The platform consists of a Realman RM75B 7-DoF arm, an Intel Re-
alSense L515 RGB-D camera, and two dexterous hands, as summarized in Fig. 19.
A 6-DoF
CasBot-P1L hand is used for standard tabletop tasks, while a 20-DoF Wuji Hand V1 is used for
more contact-rich manipulation. The policy must control not only the global arm pose but also
finger closure timing and local contact state. The external RGB-D camera provides object pose
tracking, and the reconstructed object point cloud is combined with robot forward kinematics to
generate the hand-object interaction point cloud.
The three real-world tabletop tasks are Pick, Pinch, and Sweep. Pick requires the robot to grasp
a tabletop object with multiple fingers and place it into a basket, testing grasp stability, transport,
and release timing. Pinch requires the robot to form a small-area thumb-index contact and transfer
the target object to the desired location, emphasizing fingertip alignment and stable closure. Sweep
requires the robot to push a target object into a dustpan, grasp the dustpan handle, and pour the
object into a container, involving pushing, tool grasping, and secondary contact transfer. In addition,
Wuji Hand V1 is used for two contact-rich tasks involving sustained finger–object interaction and
object reorientation. Together, these tasks cover whole-hand grasping, precise fingertip contact, and
sustained in-hand interaction.
Demonstrations are collected using the VR teleoperation system described in Appendix A.1, with
the operator controlling the arm and hand through Quest 3S. For each task, we collect 50 high-
quality demonstrations while varying object initial positions, orientations, and some object types to
improve adaptation to different geometric configurations. During point-cloud visualization, object
pose estimates may exhibit mild jitter. This perturbation does not break action learning; instead,
it increases observation variation in the training data and makes both the policy and the dynamics
checker more robust to mild perception errors in deployment.
Fig. 22 visualizes real-world executions and their reconstructed interaction point clouds. The prox-
imity responses remain concentrated near active hand–object contact regions, such as the grasping
fingers in Pick, the thumb-index contact in Pinch, and the tool-object contact transfer in Sweep.
This qualitative behavior links the real-world setup back to the geometric proximity representation
in Appendix A.3 and motivates the evaluation protocol below.
E.2
Evaluation Protocol
We use three test settings to evaluate generalization and robustness. In Distribution uses the same
objects and similar scene configurations as data collection, measuring task completion under stan-
dard conditions. Unseen Objects uses objects that do not appear in training and differ in shape,
size, or surface appearance, testing generalization to object geometry changes. Perturbation intro-
26


duces complex tabletop backgrounds, clutter, short-term visual occlusion, or mild pose perturbations
during execution, evaluating robustness under unstable perception.
Success criteria consider not only the final object location, but also contact stability and pose con-
sistency during execution. For Pick, the robot must stably grasp the target and place it into the
basket. For Pinch, it must form a stable thumb-index pinch and transfer the target to the specified
area. For Sweep, it must sweep the target into the dustpan and complete pouring into the target con-
tainer by grasping the dustpan. We evaluate ProxiDex under three test settings: standard execution,
cross-object generalization, and disturbance robustness.
E.3
Failure Case Analysis
Figure 20: Failure cases under fine in-
teraction. Finger alignment may occa-
sionally be inaccurate, and object pose
estimation may show mild jitter during
contact-rich manipulation.
The results above collectively demonstrate the accuracy
and robustness of ProxiDex, while Fig. 20 illustrates the
remaining limitations of ProxiDex in fine-grained manip-
ulation. Although ProxiDex achieves a practical balance
between low-cost data collection and real-world deploy-
ment, its current proximity representation is still mainly
geometry-driven and cannot fully capture precise finger-
tip force distribution. As shown in the zoomed failure
case, the middle finger and thumb may occasionally fail
to align symmetrically with the object during closure, re-
sulting in unbalanced contact forces. In addition, during
the cup-pinching task, the cup may exhibit slight shaking
during detachment and transfer. This motion, together
with partial hand-object occlusion, can reduce the ac-
curacy and temporal stability of object pose estimation,
thereby perturbing the interaction point cloud and affect-
ing the stability of proximity-based feedback.
Future work can incorporate data gloves or lightweight tactile sensors to obtain higher-precision
fingertip contact information, and use contrastive learning to align it with the geometric proximity
representation proposed in this work. This would preserve the low-cost and cross-platform advan-
tages of ProxiDex while improving force awareness and finger coordination in fine manipulation.
27


Figure 21: Visualization of interaction point clouds in simulation. Across Adroit, DexArt, and self-
designed tasks, the processed hand–object point clouds preserve fine-grained interaction geometry,
with red regions indicating stronger proximity responses along the task progress.
28


Figure 22: Visualization of real-world executions and the corresponding interaction point clouds.
The reconstructed point-cloud sequences closely match the camera observations, while the color-
coded proximity responses highlight local hand–object interaction regions during manipulation.
29
