Zeva: In-Context Causal Learning for Generalizable
Embodied Manipulation
Fu Chen*, Xin Ding*,†, Bingjia Huang, Xiangyu Li, Mingju Wang, Jiawei He
Kun Li, Wei Sun, Yunxin Liu, Hao Wu†,‡, Ting Cao†,§
Institute for AI Industry Research (AIR), Tsinghua University; Z-Trans AI
∗Co-first authors
†Corresponding authors
§ Project lead
‡Work done during a visit to AIR, Tsinghua
Project Page: https://air-embodied-brain.github.io/Zeva
Fig. 1.
Zeva enables self-evolving embodied intelligence through In-Context Causal Learning (ICCL). Zeva learns the causal relationships between robot
actions and resulting state changes by extracting action-induced causal transitions, maintaining dual-timescale interaction memory, and retrieving causal
context for in-context policy adaptation. Without parameter updates, Zeva enables frozen policies to progressively improve through self-evolution and
human-guided experience injection, achieving strong real-world performance and cross-task knowledge transfer beyond task-specific demonstrations.
Abstract—Generalizable embodied manipulation remains diffi-
cult to achieve through pretraining alone, due to unseen physical
conditions in the real world. We argue that robots need to learn
from their own physical interactions on the fly during real-world
deployment and use this knowledge to inform subsequent actions.
We present Zeva, the first framework that enables in-context
learning from a robot’s own physical interaction experience while
keeping the policy model frozen. Zeva employs a Causal Interac-
tion Extractor to encode an executed action and its induced state
change into a causal interaction signal, which is stored in a dual-
timescale causal memory. For subsequent actions, relevant causal
interaction signals are retrieved from memory and injected into
the frozen policy model as context. Experiments in simulation
and real-world manipulation demonstrate that Zeva achieves the
best performance among the compared frontier VLAs and WAMs
and, more importantly, enables self-evolution during deployment
without gradient updates. Its success rate continues to improve
as the robot accumulates interaction experience. Furthermore,
the acquired interaction experience can generalize across tasks.
Index
Terms—Embodied
Foundation
Models,
Interaction
Memory, Test-time Scaling, Causal Representation
I. INTRODUCTION
Generalizable interaction-intensive manipulation is the cen-
tral challenge for embodied AI. Embodied foundation models,
arXiv:2608.30880v1  [cs.RO]  31 Aug 2026


including VLAs and WAMs, have made rapid progress to-
wards this goal [1]–[9], yet deployment in the physical world
remains brittle. At deployment, robots inevitably encounter
physical conditions that are absent during pretraining, such as
novel object geometries, contact dynamics, visual variations,
and embodiment-specific execution errors. These conditions
interact with continuous, high-dimensional robot states and
actions, causing similar actions to produce significant different
outcomes. It is therefore difficult for pretraining alone to cover
the diversity of physical interactions.
To realize generalizable embodied manipulation, we argue
that the robot should learn from its own physical interaction
experiences on the fly during execution, i.e., learning the
causality between its action and the induced state change, and
can apply it to subsequent actions. Recent post-pretraining
adaptation methods have begun to move in this direction,
but still leave gaps. Test-time training methods, such as
RoboTTT [10] and WAM-TTT [11], convert deployment his-
tories into adaptive fast weights or memory modules through
test-time gradient updates. This leaves the action and state-
change structure of each interaction implicit. Recent in-context
robot learners, such as GEN-1.5 [12] and Skild S1 [13], instead
keep model weights fixed and infer a new task from one or
a few demonstrations in context. However, this form of in-
context learning primarily targets task generalization rather
than on-the-fly interaction learning.
We present Zeva, the first framework that enables in-context
learning from the robot’s own physical interaction experiences,
toward generalized embodied manipulation in real deployment.
Zeva keeps the policy model frozen at deployment, but ex-
tracts the causality between actions and state changes during
each action step and retrieves this knowledge as context for
subsequent action generation. This enables the same frozen
policy to adapt to diverse real-world physical conditions across
repeated self-attempts and exhibit self-evolution, i.e., the more
it attempts, the higher its success rate becomes.
Zeva realizes this idea as In-Context Causal Learning
(ICCL) through three stages. First, Causal Interaction Ex-
traction uses a Causal Transition Encoder (CTE) to integrate
visual latents, action encodings, and observed effects into
a Causal Interaction State, which is then projected into a
task Phase Token and a Causal Interaction Signal. Second,
Dual-timescale Causal Memory organizes these signals for
deployment-time adaptation: a Brief Interaction Trace (BIT)
captures recent within-attempt dynamics, while a Persistent
Interaction Memory (PIM) consolidates useful evidence
across attempts within the same episode through similarity-
based merging. Third, In-Context Policy Injection retrieves
phase-matched interaction evidence and constructs a Causal
Prompt for the frozen foundation policy. During deployment,
all model parameters remain frozen; only the interaction
memories are updated online.
We evaluate Zeva on RoboCasa365-Atomic5 and a real-
world chemical manipulation benchmark, ChemLab-Evo, us-
ing an ARX manipulator. The main results are: (1) Zeva
achieves the best success rate among the compared frontier
VLA and WAM models on RoboCasa365-Atomic5, reaching
76.8%. (2) Zeva achieves the best success rate on the real-
world ChemLab-Evo across all three difficulty levels. (3)
Zeva exhibits success-rate scaling from its own interaction
experience: on RoboCasa365-Atomic5, the cumulative success
rate increases from 26% at the first attempt to 73% within
four repeated attempts, and ChemLab-Evo shows the same
scaling trend across attempts. (4) Zeva also exhibits in-context
learning from human teleoperation demonstrations, further
improving performance by up-to 15% beyond learning from
its own interactions alone.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
• We formulate embodied action generalization in real-
world deployment as In-Context Causal Learning, where
a frozen robot policy learns from its own physical inter-
action experiences without test-time weight updates.
• We propose Zeva, which combines Causal Interaction Ex-
traction, Dual-timescale Causal Memory, and In-Context
Policy Injection for gradient-free self-evolution across
repeated attempts.
• We validate Zeva in simulation and real-world manipula-
tion, showing improved success across robot attempts and
the strongest success rate compared to frontier embodied
policy models.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Vision-Language-Action
and
World-Action
Foundation
Models
VLA models combine a vision-language backbone with
an action-generation head, learning an observation-to-action
mapping directly from demonstration data; representative work
includes OpenVLA [1], π0 [2], and its successors π0.5 [14] and
π∗
0.6 [15]. World-Action Models (WAMs) further unify action
generation with future visual prediction, absorbing physical
priors through large-scale video pretraining [16], [17], adapt-
ing pretrained video diffusion models to jointly denoise future
frames and actions [7], [9], or autoregressively interleaving
video and action tokens under a causal attention mask [8].
All of these models require large-scale pretraining to obtain
generalizable priors, and their weights remain fixed after
deployment, so their capability ceiling is set by the pretraining
corpus. This work adopts Cosmos3’s [18] rectified-flow action-
generation head as the policy backbone, but obtains continual
adaptation after deployment through an external self-evolving
mechanism rather than through pretraining scale.
B. Behavioral and Latent-Action Representation Learning
To mitigate distribution shift caused by high-dimensional
observation-to-action
mapping,
one
line
of
work
[19]–
[24],
learns
low-dimensional
behavioral
representations:
ALAM [25] and LAPA [26] learn latent-action encodings
from unlabeled video via algebraic-consistency constraints
and inverse-dynamics reconstruction, respectively; Behav-
iorVLA [27] encodes a trajectory into a scene-agnostic global
prototype and an online-updated local phase; UniVLA [28]


Attn(QAR, KAR, VAR)
Self Attention
Full Attention
Attn(QDM, [KAR; KDM], [VAR; VDM])
In-context Conditioning
+ Causal Prompt Injection
Attn(Q, K, V|Mτ)
ZEVA: In-Context Causal Learning
Layer Norm
MLP
Layer Norm
MLP
x L
Transformer Layers 
(x L)
ǅ2
…
…
ǐ1
ǐ2
ǐ3
ǐ4
ǅ3
Causal Transition 
Encoder (CTE)
Dual Memory
Causal Prompt
Ϗ̐ = ψ([ϣ, ϫ̐ , ϊ̐푏푟ϤϡϢ, ϔ̐ ])
…
ϡ1
ϡ2
ϊ̐푏푟ϤϡϢ
ϊ̐ϫϤϨ
Persistent 
Memory
Causal Prompt̙̐
  =  ( ϫ̐ ,  ϡ̐ )
ϊ̐푏푟ϤϡϢ
ϔ̐
Generation Action
Language Tokens
DM Tokens
AR Tokens
ǚ՛֟
ǚէ֋
ǐ
ǅ
Ǒ
Vision Encoder(ViT)
Language Tokenizer
AR Path
Input encoders
…
…
AR subsequence
ǚ1
՛֟
ǚ2
՛֟
ǐ1
ǐ2
EOS BOS
Diffusion Path
Diffusion subsequence
Input encoders
Vision Encoder(VAE) Action Encoder Causal Encoder
ǚ1
է֋ ǚ2
է֋ ǚ3
է֋ …
ǅ1
ǅ2
Ǒ1
Ǒ2
…
Causal Encoder
퐴푡푡ϩ(ϓ, ύ, Ϙ|Ϗ̐ )
ǅ1
ǚ1
է֋ ǚ2
է֋
Retrieval
Fig. 2.
Detailed architecture of the Zeva framework. Zeva integrates causal interaction intelligence into a frozen foundation policy through three main
components: (1) Causal Transition Encoder, which maps action-effect pairs into latent causal signals; (2) Dual-timescale Causal Memory, consisting of a Brief
Interaction Trace (BIT) for within-attempt dynamics and a Persistent Interaction Memory (PIM) for cross-attempt experience; and (3) Causal Prompt Injection,
where retrieved phase-matched evidence is injected into the Transformer’s self-attention layers as an in-context prompt to guide the Diffusion-based action
generation.
derives task-centric latent action representations from action-
label-free video across arbitrary embodiments and viewpoints.
These methods show that low-dimensional behavioral repre-
sentations outperform high-dimensional direct mapping, but
in every case the representation space is fixed before deploy-
ment and cannot accumulate interaction experience from real
deployment, making them difficult to keep effective as the
distribution keeps changing.
C. Memory-Augmented Robot Policies
Another line of work equips policies with online memory to
handle long-horizon dependencies. MemoryVLA [29] main-
tains a perceptual-cognitive memory bank and handles non-
Markovian control through a retrieve-fuse-consolidate mech-
anism; MEM [30] combines short-term video memory with
a long-term language-based event summary to support tasks
lasting more than ten minutes; DIM-WAM [31] and Memo-
ryWAM [32] compress visual history through, respectively, a
multi-type historical event bank and a sliding-window-plus-
anchor-frame mechanism. In each case, the memory content
consists of observation- or semantic-level historical fragments.
Determining which direction an action shifted the state on a
failed attempt, and how it should be adjusted on the next
attempt of the same episode, requires explicitly preserving
the action–state-change relationship across attempt boundaries,
something perception-side history alone does not capture.
D. Deployment-Time Adaptation and Experience-Driven Self-
Improvement
The line of work closest to our motivation enables policies
to improve from their own deployment experience. π∗
0.6 (RE-
CAP) [15] and VLA-RL [33] update policies through offline
or online reinforcement learning on autonomous rollouts.
However, their gradient-based optimization cycles are too slow
to adapt the policy between consecutive attempts and are
vulnerable to capability collapse. RoboTTT [10] and WAM-
TTT [11] accelerate adaptation by updating lightweight fast
weights or memory modules via test-time gradients. Neverthe-
less, the adaptation latency remains far beyond the timescale
of individual attempts, and WAM-TTT additionally relies on
human demonstration videos as the update source, preventing
the agent from autonomously exploring and improving through
its own interaction experiences.
III. METHOD
A. Problem Formulation: In-Context Causal Learning
We consider an embodied agent that must generalize to
novel tasks T
∼P(T ) by learning from interaction in-
context. Unlike standard imitation learning, our goal is In-
Context Causal Learning (ICCL), where the agent should
infer the causal structure of the environment, specifically the
relationship between its actions and the resulting state changes,
within a single episode without weight updates (∇θπ = 0).
Formally, at attempt r, the policy π leverages a causal
context Mr−1 extracted from previous interactions. The ob-
jective is to maximize the success rate on unseen tasks by


minimizing the discrepancy between the predicted and actual
causal effects:
LICCL = Eτ[∥∆sτ −Inference(π(oτ, Mr−1))∥]
(1)
where M acts as the ”causal prompt” that guides the frozen
foundation model to adapt to new physical dynamics.
1) Causal Context as Interaction Evidence: To achieve
this, we define the interaction experience as a sequence of
interaction triplets. At each timestep τ, the agent action
uτ is treated as an interaction with the environment, and the
resulting visual state change ∆sτ = sτ+k −sτ is its effect. A
causal interaction unit ξτ is defined as:
ξτ = ϕ(sτ, uτ, ∆sτ)
(2)
The causal context M is an organized collection of these units
ξ. By conditioning on M, the frozen policy π(aτ | oτ, g, M)
performs implicit system identification. It infers latent envi-
ronmental properties such as object mass or joint constraints
from past interaction signals, thereby generalizing its action
strategy to previously unseen physical configurations.
B. Overview of Zeva
To realize the ICCL objective, we propose Zeva, a frame-
work that transforms raw interactions into a dual timescale
causal memory. Zeva consists of three parts: (1) Causal
Interaction Extraction, which maps actions and effects into
a latent space, (2) Dual timescale Memory Management,
which structures experiences for retrieval, and (3) In-Context
Policy Injection, which provides the causal prompt to the
foundation model.
Figure ?? shows how these components couple to the two-
path foundation policy. The autoregressive path encodes mul-
timodal context, while the diffusion path generates continuous
robot actions. For every executed transition, CTE extracts a
phase token and a causal interaction signal: the Brief Interac-
tion Trace supplies recent within-attempt evidence, whereas
the Persistent Interaction Memory retrieves phase-matched
evidence accumulated across attempts. The resulting causal
prompt conditions the full-attention blocks of the diffusion
path, allowing the policy to change its action strategy through
context while keeping all model parameters fixed.
C. Part 1: Causal Interaction Extraction
To bridge the gap between raw pixels and causal reasoning,
we use a Causal Transition Encoder(CTE) to map interac-
tions into a latent causal space.
a) Interaction Recurrence.: At each timestep τ, we ex-
tract three transient signals: visual latents sτ, action encoding
uτ, and the observed effect dτ. Inspired by trajectory-level
behavioral representations [27], we integrate these signals into
a Causal Interaction State Bτ via a gated recurrence::
Bτ = GRU(Bτ−1, [sτ; uτ; dτ]),
B0 = Finit(g, s0)
(3)
The state Bτ is projected into two components: a Phase Token
pτ representing task progress and a Causal Interaction Signal
eτ characterizing the dynamics. Together, they form the causal
interaction unit ξτ = (pτ, eτ) as defined in Section III-A.
b) Learning Objectives.: We optimize the Causal Transi-
tion Encoder with a multi objective loss to ensure eτ captures
physical causality:
• Causal Effect Prediction (Leffect): This objective de-
codes eτ and candidate actions to predict visual state
changes ∆sτ, grounding the signal in physical effects.
• Task Identity Clustering (Ltask): A supervised con-
trastive loss that clusters episodes of the same task to
learn a task consistent interaction space.
• Phase Progression (Lphase): A loss that ensures pτ
captures the monotonic progression of task execution.
D. Part 2: Dual timescale Causal Memory
Zeva organizes interaction units (pτ, eτ) into two memory
streams to support adaptation both within and across attempts
of the current episode.
a) Brief Interaction Trace.: Hbrief
τ
stores a sliding win-
dow of the most recent interaction signals {ej}τ
j=τ−K. This
provides the policy with immediate local context regarding the
efficacy of current actions.
Hbrief
τ
= {ej}τ
j=τ−Kbrief
(4)
This trace is reset at the end of each attempt.
b) Persistent Interaction Memory.:
Hpim
τ
accumulates
causal units ξ = (p, e) across attempts of the same episode
and is cleared before a new episode begins. To ensure scal-
ability, we employ similarity based merging. For a new unit
ξτ = (pτ, eτ), we find the most similar entry ξ∗∈Hpim
τ
by
calculating:
Smerge(ξτ, ξj) = βpsim(pτ, pj) + βesim(eτ, ej)
(5)
The persistent memory is then updated as follows:
Hpim
τ
←





(Hpim
τ−1 \ {ξ∗})
∪{Merge(ξ∗, ξτ)}
if Smerge(ξτ, ξ∗) > τmerge,
Hpim
τ−1 ∪{ξτ},
otherwise
(6)
This ensures that a new experience is only merged if it matches
both the task progress and the physical dynamics of an existing
record.
E. Part 3: In-Context Policy Injection
The final stage transforms stored experiences into a struc-
tured causal prompt for the foundation model.
a) Phase-Conditioned Retrieval.: We use the current
phase pτ to query the persistent memory for the most relevant
interaction evidence. The retrieved set Rτ consists of signals
whose associated phases match the current progress:
Rτ = {ek | (pk, ek) ∈Hpim
τ , top-K sim(pτ, pk)}
(7)
b) Causal Prompt Construction.: The memory context
Mτ is constructed by integrating the task token g and the
current phase token pτ with both short term and long term


Algorithm 1 In-Context Causal Inference with Zeva
Input: Task instruction g, environment E, maximum attempts R, episode
horizon T, retrieval size K, and brief-memory window Kb
Input: Frozen Causal Transition Encoder (CTE), Memory Context Encoder
Fmem, and foundation policy π
Output: Task outcome and updated persistent interaction memory Hpim
1: Freeze all neural parameters θ
2: Hpim ←∅
▷Global schema retained across attempts
3: for r = 1, . . . , R do
4:
o0 ←RESET(E)
5:
Hbrief ←∅
▷Local context reset per attempt
6:
B0 ←Finit(g, s0)
▷Initialize causal interaction state
7:
p0 ←Pphase(B0)
▷Initial phase token
8:
for t = 0, . . . , T −1 do
9:
Rt ←PHASERETRIEVAL(pt, Hpim, K)
▷Retrieve relevant
interaction evidence
10:
Mt ←Fmem(g, pt, Hbrief, Rt)
▷Construct Causal Prompt
11:
at ∼π(· | ot, g, Mt)
▷Implicit causal inference and action
generation
12:
(ot+1, terminal) ←STEP(E, at)
13:
Bt+1 ←GRU(Bt, [st+1; at; ∆st])
▷Update interaction state
via CTE
14:
pt+1 ←Pphase(Bt+1), et+1 ←Psignal(Bt+1)
15:
Hbrief ←UPDATEBRIEF(Hbrief, et+1, Kb)
▷Update sliding
window
16:
Hpim ←CAUSALMERGE(Hpim, pt+1, et+1)
17:
if terminal then
18:
break
19:
end if
20:
end for
21:
if SUCCESS(E) then
22:
return (SUCCESS, r, Hpim)
23:
end if
24: end for
25: return (FAILURE, R, Hpim)
interaction histories. Specifically, the Memory Context En-
coder Fmem fuses these components after projecting the history
streams through a shared projector Pproj:
Mτ = Fmem
 [g; pτ; Pproj(Hbrief
τ
); Pproj(Rτ)]

(8)
In this formulation, g and pτ provide task and phase anchoring,
while Pproj(Hbrief
τ
) and Pproj(Rτ) provide causal feedback
from the current and previous attempts. By injecting Mτ
as a Causal Prompt, the frozen foundation model performs
implicit causal inference. It adapts its actions π(aτ | oτ, Mτ)
based on the success or failure of previous interactions to
maximize task success.
F. Inference
During deployment, all parameters remain frozen. The agent
updates its causal memory online and the foundation model
treats the evolving Mτ as a dynamic context for decision
making. The complete in-context causal inference procedure
is summarized in Algorithm 1.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
We evaluate Zeva on the RoboCasa365-Atomic5 simulation
benchmark and the real-world ChemLab-Evo benchmark. Our
experiments are designed to answer three key questions: (1)
Benchmark Performance: Can Zeva achieve competitive task
success and long-horizon progress across simulated and real-
world manipulation tasks of increasing complexity? (2) Post-
Deployment In-Context Scaling: Can accumulated interac-
tion experience and a one-shot human demonstration improve
a frozen policy across repeated attempts without parameter
updates? (3) Causal Memory and Cross-Task Generaliza-
tion: Do CTE, BIT, and PIM encode useful action-induced
interaction signals that contribute to performance improvement
and support meaningful cross-task retrieval and transfer?
A. Experimental Setup
1) Episode and Attempt Protocol: We use two evaluation
units: episode and attempt. An episode corresponds to a
single task instance defined by its initialization, including the
scene layout, object poses, and the robot’s starting config-
uration. A randomized episode independently samples this
initialization at the beginning of the episode. A fixed episode
selects the initialization once and holds it unchanged across
repeated attempts. An attempt is one continuous policy execu-
tion from the initial observation until termination or success.
Before each new attempt in a fixed episode, the environment
is restored to the same initial state.
The Brief Interaction Trace (BIT) is cleared at the beginning
of every attempt, whereas the Persistent Interaction Memory
(PIM) is retained across attempts within the same episode.
Both memories are cleared before the next episode. An episode
terminates immediately after the first successful attempt, and
every compared method receives the same maximum retry
budget.
2) Simulation Benchmark: We evaluate Zeva on five rep-
resentative tasks from RoboCasa365, covering diverse kitchen
manipulation skills such as articulated-object interaction, ob-
ject placement, and appliance operation. We refer to this five-
task evaluation subset as RoboCasa365-Atomic5 (Atomic5).
Each task is evaluated over 50 independently randomized
episodes.
3) Real-World Chemical Lab (ChemLab-Evo): To evalu-
ate whether Zeva can improve its manipulation capability
through accumulated interaction experience after deployment,
we construct ChemLab-Evo, a real-world chemical laboratory
benchmark using an ARX manipulator in an 80 cm × 60 cm
workspace. ChemLab-Evo comprises seven tasks spanning
three levels of increasing compositional complexity. Level 1
(Atomic) evaluates individual manipulation primitives through
Pick Up Test Tube, Place Beaker, and Pour Water. Level 2
(Short-sequence) introduces short skill compositions through
Titration and Prepare Salt Solution. Level 3 (Complex) eval-
uates long-horizon, multi-stage procedures through Balance
Weighing and Extraction. As complexity increases, successful
execution shifts from completing a single target primitive to
completing all constituent phases in the prescribed order. This
hierarchical evaluation allows us to examine not only task-
level performance, but also whether accumulated interaction
experience improves execution reliability as task complexity
increases. The main benchmark and each ablation configura-


TABLE I
REAL-WORLD EVALUATION ON CHEMLAB-EVO. THE LEFT BLOCK REPORTS SUCCESS RATE (SR, %) OVER 20 RANDOMIZED EPISODES, WITH
MACRO-AVERAGES FOR EACH DIFFICULTY LEVEL. THE RIGHT BLOCK REPORTS THE AVERAGE PERCENTAGE OF ORDERED TASK STAGES COMPLETED ON
THE TWO LONG-HORIZON TASKS. BEST PROCESS SCORES ARE IN BOLD.
Method
Success Rate (SR, %)
Process Score (%)
Level 1 (Atomic)
Level 2 (Short-sequence)
Level 3 (Complex)
Long-horizon
Pick Up
Test Tube
Place
Beaker
Pour
Water
Avg.
(%) Titration Prepare Salt
Solution
Avg.
(%)
Balance
Weighing Extraction Avg.
Balance
Weighing Extraction Avg.
LingBot-VA [8]
80
70
65
71.7
55
75
65.0
5
0
2.5
28.75
40.00
34.38
Fast-WAM [34]
85
70
75
76.7
45
55
50.0
0
0
0.0
22.50
58.57
40.54
π0.5 [14]
95
60
65
73.3
60
50
55.0
0
0
0.0
33.75
31.43
32.59
Cosmos3-Nano [18]
80
70
60
70.0
45
60
52.5
0
0
0.0
38.75
50.71
44.73
Zeva
100
70
80
83.3
70
70
70.0
5
10
7.5
47.50
67.14
57.32
TABLE II
RESULTS ON THE ROBOCASA365-ATOMIC5 (ATOMIC5)
BENCHMARK [35]. WE REPORT TASK SUCCESS RATE (SR) OVER 50
RANDOMIZED EPISODES AND THE MACRO-AVERAGE. BEST RESULTS ARE
IN BOLD.
Method
TurnOn
ElectricKettle
CloseToaster
OvenDoor
TurnOn
Microwave
CoffeeSetup
Mug
OpenStand
MixerHead Avg.
LingBot-VA [8]
63
60
70
35
48
55.2
Xiaomi-Robotics-1 [36]
17
16
82
6
35
31.2
τ0-WM [37]
15
32
63
12
23
29.0
Fast-WAM [34]
88
66
60
54
94
72.4
Cosmos3-Nano [18]
76
74
76
6
92
64.8
Zeva
78
86
84
44
92
76.8
tion use 20 independently randomized episodes per evaluated
task.
4) Comparative Baselines: On Atomic5, we compare Zeva
with LingBot-VA [8], Xiaomi-Robotics-1 [36], τ0-WM [37],
Fast-WAM [34], and Cosmos3-Nano [18]. For ChemLab-Evo,
we additionally include π0.5 [14]. All baselines are reproduced
locally using the same task-specific training datasets, observa-
tion and action interfaces, and evaluation protocol as Zeva.
B. Evaluation Metrics
Benchmark Metrics. For both simulation and ChemLab-
Evo, we report the task-level Success Rate (SR) and the
macro-average SR across the evaluated tasks. Each SR is
computed over 50 randomized episodes per simulation task
and 20 randomized episodes per real-world task. Because
binary success provides limited resolution for long-horizon
tasks, we additionally report a normalized process Score. For
a task with Mt ordered stages, let Li be the length of the
longest stage prefix completed in the prescribed order during
episode i. The task-level Score is
Scoret = 100
N
N
X
i=1
Li
Mt
,
where N = 20 for ChemLab-Evo. An episode receives 100
only if all stages are completed, while a failed episode retains
credit for the valid progress made before termination.
Post-Deployment Scaling Metrics. To quantify how ca-
pability scales with accumulated interaction experience, let
yi,k ∈{0, 1} denote the outcome of fixed episode i at attempt
k. We report the Cumulative Success Rate (CSR@K), the
fraction of fixed episodes completed within an attempt budget
K:
CSR@K = 1
N
N
X
i=1
I

max
1≤k≤K yi,k = 1

.
C. Experiment Results
1) Real-World Evaluation on ChemLab-Evo: We further
evaluate Zeva on the real-world ChemLab-Evo benchmark
using an ARX manipulator. The SR block of Table I is orga-
nized by task complexity, from atomic manipulation primitives
to multi-stage chemical procedures. Zeva achieves the best
average success rate at every complexity level. Relative to
the strongest baseline in each level, it improves the atomic,
short-sequence, and complex averages by 6.6, 5.0, and 5.0
percentage points, respectively. Since terminal success alone
obscures partial progress on the two long-horizon tasks, the
process-score block on the right further compares their ordered
stage completion. Zeva obtains Scores of 47.50 on Balance
Weighing and 67.14 on Extraction, exceeding the strongest
baseline for each task by 8.75 and 8.57 points, respectively.
Its average Score of 57.32 improves over the best baseline
average by 12.59 points.
2) Simulation Benchmark Results: As shown in Table II,
Zeva achieves the highest average success rate of 76.8%,
exceeding Fast-WAM by 4.4 percentage points.
D. Ablation Studies
We ablate the two interaction-memory timescales on five
real-world ChemLab-Evo tasks: all three atomic tasks and both
short-sequence tasks. Table III compares the full model with
variants that remove the Brief Interaction Trace, the Persistent
Interaction Memory, or both. We denote these components as
BIT and PIM, respectively, and report the task-level SR over
20 randomized episodes for each configuration.


The full model performs best on all five tasks. Removing
PIM reduces the SR by 10–20 percentage points, while re-
moving BIT causes a larger decrease of 15–30 percentage
points, with the largest drops on Pour Water and Titration.
These controlled results support the complementary roles of
cross-attempt memory and within-attempt context. Disabling
both components yields the weakest result on every task.
TABLE III
REAL-WORLD ABLATION OF BIT AND PIM ON FIVE CHEMLAB-EVO
TASKS. CHECKMARKS INDICATE ENABLED COMPONENTS. ENTRIES
REPORT TASK-LEVEL SR (%) OVER 20 RANDOMIZED EPISODES; BEST
RESULTS ARE IN BOLD.
Method
Pick Up
Test Tube
Place
Beaker
Pour
Water Titr.
Salt
Solution
BIT PIM
✓
✓
100
70
80
70
70
✓
80
50
50
40
55
✓
85
60
70
60
50
65
40
45
25
35
E. Post-Deployment In-Context Scaling
1) Post-Deployment Capability Scaling: We next examine
whether Zeva improves its probability of task completion as
interaction experience accumulates across repeated attempts.
This analysis is conducted on fixed episodes selected sepa-
rately from the randomized episodes used in the main bench-
mark tables. For Atomic5, the scaling subset contains 20
fixed episodes per task, yielding 100 equally weighted task–
configuration pairs; it is distinct from the standard evaluation
above, which uses 50 randomized episodes per task across
a broader set of initial configurations. Figure 3 reports four
milestones along the evolution trajectory, denoted Evolve 1–
4. These labels index selected stages of evolution rather than
consecutive attempt numbers. The pooled cumulative success
rate rises from 26% at Evolve 1 to 45% at Evolve 2, reaches
70% at Evolve 3, and plateaus at 73% by Evolve 4. On
Evolve 1
Evolve 2
Evolve 3
Evolve 4
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
Cumulative success rate
26%
45%
70%
73%
Fig. 3.
Post-deployment capability scaling on RoboCasa365. Each of the
five tasks contributes 20 randomized episodes, yielding 100 equally weighted
task–seed pairs. Evolve 1–4 denote selected evolution milestones.
ChemLab-Evo, Figure 4 likewise uses separately selected fixed
episodes and reports four evolution milestones for the three
atomic tasks. The plotted fixed episodes are independent of
the randomized episodes in Table I. Across these milestones,
cumulative success increases monotonically from 65% to
100% for Pick Up Test Tube, from 25% to 70% for Place
Beaker, and from 30% to 80% for Pour Water.
Evolve 1
Evolve 2
Evolve 3
Evolve 4
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Cumulative success rate
65%
75%
95%
100%
25%
40%
60%
70%
30%
55%
60%
80%
Pick Up Test Tube
Place Beaker
Pour Water
Fig. 4.
Post-deployment capability scaling on three ChemLab-Evo tasks
using separately selected fixed episodes. Evolve 1–4 denote selected evolution
milestones.
2) One-Shot Warm-Up from a Human Demonstration: We
further present a one-shot memory warm-up case study on the
Balance Weighing task. A human physically guides the ARX
manipulator once to pick a calibration weight and place it on
the balance; CTE encodes the resulting action–state-change
trajectory to initialize PIM while the policy remains frozen. We
compare the resulting Zeva execution with a baseline that uses
the same frozen policy without memory warm-up. As shown
in Figure 5, Zeva reproduces the demonstrated approach,
grasp, transfer, and placement stages. Its end-effector trajec-
tory reaches both the grasp and placement events, whereas the
baseline deviates after approaching the calibration weights and
does not complete a valid placement. This case illustrates that
a single human experience can warm-start Zeva through its
memory interface without gradient updates before autonomous
interaction continues.
We further quantify this warm-up effect on the three atomic
ChemLab-Evo tasks. For every evaluated fixed episode, the
warm-up condition provides one task-matched human demon-
stration before autonomous self-evolution, while the compari-
son condition self-evolves without this initialization. As shown
in Figure 6, human warm-up improves or matches SR at every
evolution milestone. The gain reaches 20 percentage points
on Place Beaker and 15 points on Pour Water; on Pick Up
Test Tube, warm-up improves the early milestones before both
conditions converge to 100%.
F. Cross-Task Generalization of Causal Interaction Signals
1) Cross-Task Transfer: We first test whether task-local
causal interaction signals can be replaced by functionally
similar signals retrieved from other tasks during policy ex-
ecution. For each retrieval, we substitute the corresponding
task-local interaction signal with its nearest cross-task match
while keeping the policy frozen and all remaining inputs
unchanged. As shown in Figure 7, SR changes from 100% to
95% on Pick Up Test Tube and remains 80% on Pour Water.
In contrast, replacing the task-local signal with a randomly


(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 5.
One-shot human warm-up for Balance Weighing. Rows show (a) the human-guided demonstration used to initialize PIM, (b) Zeva after one-shot
memory warm-up, and (c) the baseline without memory warm-up. Frames in each row form a timeline ordered from left to right. The 3D plot compares the
corresponding end-effector trajectories; stars and triangles denote grasp and placement events, respectively.
Evolve 1
Evolve 2
Evolve 3
Evolve 4
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Success rate
(a) Pick Up Test Tube
65%
70%
75%
80%
95%
100%
Evolve 1
Evolve 2
Evolve 3
Evolve 4
20%
40%
60%
80%
(b) Place Beaker
25%
45%
40%
55%
60%
75%
70%
80%
Evolve 1
Evolve 2
Evolve 3
Evolve 4
30%
50%
70%
90%
(c) Pour Water
30%
40%
55%
60%
75%
80%
90%
Self-Evolve
Human demonstration + Self-Evolve
Fig. 6. One-shot human-demonstration warm-up on three atomic ChemLab-Evo tasks. Each evaluated fixed episode is paired with one task-matched human
demonstration before autonomous self-evolution. Solid lines show self-evolution without warm-up, while dashed lines show human warm-up followed by
self-evolution. Each panel uses its own y-axis range to keep within-task changes legible.
selected cross-task interaction signal reduces SR to 55%
and 45%, respectively. Nearest cross-task retrieval therefore
exceeds random replacement by 40 and 35 percentage points
while preserving most or all of the original task performance
in these two settings.
Pick Up Test Tube
Pour Water
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Success rate
100%
80%
95%
80%
55%
45%
Zeva
Cross-task
Random
Fig. 7. Quantitative replacement with cross-task causal interaction signals on
ChemLab-Evo. Zeva uses the retrieved task-local interaction signal, Cross-
task substitutes its nearest counterpart from another task, and Random uses
a randomly selected interaction signal from the same cross-task pool. The
frozen policy and all other inputs remain unchanged.
2) Cross-Task Retrieval: We next probe whether the CTE
causal interaction signal eτ captures action-induced state
changes beyond task-specific appearance. For each query
transition, we retrieve nearest neighbors by cosine similarity
between interaction signals from a diagnostic memory pool
that contains only other tasks; this analysis does not alter the
task-local memory protocol used for the quantitative evalua-
tion. Figure 8 shows representative matches for three effects.
A pouring transition from Pour Water retrieves container-
tilting transitions from Prepare Salt Solution and Extrac-
tion. Gripper closure around a test tube retrieves contact-
establishment transitions involving different vessels, while
lifting retrieves post-grasp upward motions across object cat-
egories. Thus, transitions with different objects, viewpoints,
and task instructions are aligned by functionally equivalent
physical effects, providing a mechanism for future cross-task
memory reuse.
G. Qualitative and Representation Analysis
1) Case-Wise Post-Deployment Evolution: Figure 9 com-
plements the aggregate scaling curves with case-wise evidence
of how interaction memory changes later retries and the
eventual successful execution. The four frames in each row


Pouring
→
→
→
Closing
→
→
→
Lifting
→
→
→
Fig. 8. Cross-task retrieval in the latent space of CTE causal interaction signals. Each block shows a left-to-right state transition. Blue outlines denote queries,
and teal outlines denote their two nearest cross-task matches. Rows group transitions by physical effect despite changes in objects, viewpoints, and instructions.
are arranged chronologically, but they do not represent four
distinct attempts.
Earlier
−→
Later
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 9.
Chronological post-deployment evolution on three ChemLab-Evo
tasks. Red frames are terminal observations from distinct failed attempts.
Green frames show the subsequent successful attempt; in (a) and (b), the
two green frames are successive stages of the same continuous attempt.
Pick Up Test Tube. In the first two attempts, the gripper
reaches the rack but does not establish a stable grasp. In
the subsequent successful attempt, the third frame shows the
corrected grasp, while the fourth shows the robot retracting
with the tube during the same continuous execution. This
progression is consistent with the cross-attempt use of the
action–effect evidence retained in PIM.
Place Beaker. The first two attempts expose errors in wrist
orientation and placement near the target region. The final two
frames then show two stages of one successful attempt: Zeva
first secures the beaker and subsequently places it at the target.
This corrected execution illustrates the type of cross-attempt
adaptation supported by the retained interaction evidence.
Pour Water. This task additionally requires coordinated trans-
port, rim alignment, and controlled rotation. Across the first
three failed attempts, the observed behavior reveals remaining
relative-pose and tilt errors. In the subsequent successful
attempt, Zeva positions the tube over the beaker and exe-
cutes the required pouring motion. This qualitative sequence
is consistent with progressive correction from accumulated
interaction evidence.
2) CTE Representation Analysis: We further use t-SNE to
visualize the interaction embeddings learned by CTE across all
seven ChemLab-Evo tasks. Figure 10 compares the full three-
stream representation with a variant that removes the effect
stream. Full CTE produces compact, task-specific clusters with
clear separation, whereas removing the effect stream increases
within-task dispersion and inter-task mixing. This comparison
is consistent with observed state changes contributing to task-
discriminative causal interaction memory.
(a) Full CTE
(b) w/o Effect Stream
Fig. 10.
t-SNE visualization of CTE interaction embeddings across seven
ChemLab-Evo tasks. Full CTE forms compact clusters, whereas removing
the effect stream increases dispersion and cross-task overlap.
V. CONCLUSION
Zeva is the first framework to enable in-context learning of
interaction causality from a robot’s own physical experience
for generalizable embodied manipulation, while keeping the
policy model frozen. Experiments in simulation and real-
world manipulation demonstrate that Zeva achieves the best
performance among the frontier VLA and WAM models.
Moreover, its success rate consistently improves over repeated
attempts as interaction experience accumulates.
A current limitation is that Zeva learns causality only from
attempts generated for task execution, rather than actively
collecting interactions for learning. Future work will therefore
investigate causality-driven exploration, in which the robot
purposefully selects informative rollouts to reduce uncertainty
about physical interactions and acquire experience more effi-
ciently.


ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We thank An Pan, Zexu Wang, Yi Tao, Zijian Wang, Shuhao
Wu, Wenhui Gu, and Bowen Yang for their contributions on
engineering and demos.
REFERENCES
[1] M. J. Kim, K. Pertsch, S. Karamcheti, T. Xiao, A. Balakrishna, S. Nair,
R. Rafailov, E. Foster, G. Lam, P. Sanketi, Q. Vuong, T. Kollar,
B. Burchfiel, R. Tedrake, D. Sadigh, S. Levine, P. Liang, and C. Finn,
“OpenVLA: An open-source vision-language-action model,” in Proc.
Conf. Robot Learning (CoRL), 2024.
[2] K. Black, N. Brown, D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn, N. Fusai,
L. Groom, K. Hausman, B. Ichter, S. Jakubczak, T. Jones, L. Ke,
S. Levine, A. Li-Bell, M. Mothukuri, S. Nair, K. Pertsch, L. X. Shi,
J. Tanner, Q. Vuong, A. Walling, H. Wang, and U. Zhilinsky, “π0:
A vision-language-action flow model for general robot control,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[3] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal et al., “RT-1: Robotics transformer
for real-world control at scale,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022.
[4] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y. Chebotar, X. Chen, K. Choroman-
ski, T. Ding, D. Driess, A. Dubey, C. Finn, P. Florence, C. Fu, M. G.
Arenas, K. Gopalakrishnan, K. Han, K. Hausman, A. Herzog, J. Hsu,
B. Ichter, A. Irpan, N. Joshi, R. Julian, D. Kalashnikov, Y. Kuang, I. Leal,
L. Lee, S. Levine, Y. Lu, H. Michalewski, I. Mordatch, K. Pertsch,
K. Rao, K. Reymann, M. Ryoo, G. Salazar, P. Sanketi, P. Sermanet,
J. Singh, A. Singh, R. Soricut, H. Tran, V. Vanhoucke, Q. Vuong,
A. Wahid, S. Welker, P. Wohlhart, J. Wu, F. Xia, T. Xiao, P. Xu, S. Xu,
T. Yu, and B. Zitkovich, “RT-2: Vision-language-action models transfer
web knowledge to robotic control,” in Proc. Conf. Robot Learning
(CoRL), 2023.
[5] Octo Model Team, D. Ghosh, H. Walke, K. Pertsch, K. Black, O. Mees,
S. Dasari, J. Hejna, C. Finn, and S. Levine, “Octo: An open-source
generalist robot policy,” in Proc. Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS),
2024.
[6] C. Chi, Z. Xu, S. Feng, E. Cousineau, Y. Du, B. Burchfiel, R. Tedrake,
and S. Song, “Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action
diffusion,” in Proc. Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2023.
[7] M. J. Kim, Y. Gao, T.-Y. Lin, Y.-C. Lin, Y. Ge, G. Lam, P. Liang,
S. Song, M.-Y. Liu, C. Finn, and J. Gu, “Cosmos policy: Fine-tuning
video models for visuomotor control and planning,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2601.16163, 2026.
[8] L. Li, Q. Zhang, Y. Luo, S. Yang, R. Wang, F. Han, M. Yu, Z. Gao,
N. Xue, X. Zhu, Y. Shen, and Y. Xu, “Causal world modeling for robot
control,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.21998, 2026.
[9] C. Ye, Y. Ge, Y. Ge, Y. Shan, and M.-Y. Liu, “World action models are
zero-shot policies,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.15922, 2026.
[10] Y. Jiang, Y. Chebotar, R. Zheng, F. Hu, Y. Ge, J. Wu, T. Dai, S. Reed,
L. Fei-Fei, Y. Zhu, and L. Fan, “RoboTTT: Context scaling for robot
policies,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.15275, 2026.
[11] Y. Feng, B. Han, J. Lyu, K. Liu, Y. Zheng, Y. Wan, W. Liu, S. Han,
R. Li, Y. Zhang, F. Liu, X. Shi, L. Liu, Y. Wang, Z. Zhang, and H. Wang,
“WAM-TTT: Steering world-action models by watching human play at
test time,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.06988, 2026.
[12] Generalist Team, “GEN-1.5: Embodied foundation models are one-
shot learners,” Generalist AI Blog, Aug. 2026. [Online]. Available:
https://generalistai.com/blog/gen-1.5
[13] Skild AI, “Introducing S1: In-context learning for robotics,” Skild AI
Blog, Aug. 2026. [Online]. Available: https://www.skild.ai/blogs/s1
[14] Physical Intelligence, K. Black, N. Brown, J. Darpinian, K. Dhabalia,
D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn, N. Fusai, M. Y. Galliker,
D. Ghosh, L. Groom, K. Hausman, B. Ichter, S. Jakubczak, T. Jones,
L. Ke, D. LeBlanc, S. Levine, A. Li-Bell, M. Mothukuri, S. Nair,
K. Pertsch, A. Z. Ren, L. X. Shi, L. Smith, J. T. Springenberg,
K. Stachowicz, J. Tanner, Q. Vuong, H. Walke, A. Walling, H. Wang,
L. Yu, and U. Zhilinsky, “π0.5: a vision-language-action model with
open-world generalization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.
[15] Physical Intelligence et al., “π∗
0.6: a VLA that learns from experience,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.14759, 2025.
[16] H. Wu, Y. Jing, C.-L. Cheang, G. Chen, J. Xu, X. Li, M. Liu, H. Li,
and T. Kong, “Unleashing large-scale video generative pre-training for
visual robot manipulation,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learning Representations
(ICLR), 2024.
[17] C.-L. Cheang, G. Chen, Y. Jing, T. Kong, H. Li, Y. Li, Y. Liu, H. Wu,
J. Xu, Y. Yang, H. Zhang, and M. Zhu, “GR-2: A generative video-
language-action model with web-scale knowledge for robot manipula-
tion,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.06158, 2024.
[18] NVIDIA, “Cosmos 3: Omnimodal world models for physical ai,” https:
//research.nvidia.com/labs/cosmos-lab/cosmos3/technical-report.pdf,
2026.
[19] T. Z. Zhao, V. Kumar, S. Levine, and C. Finn, “Learning fine-grained
bimanual manipulation with low-cost hardware,” in Proc. Robotics:
Science and Systems (RSS), 2023.
[20] S. Lee, Y. Wang, H. Etukuru, H. J. Kim, N. M. M. Shafiullah, and
L. Pinto, “Behavior generation with latent actions,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Machine Learning (ICML), 2024.
[21] K. Pertsch, K. Stachowicz, B. Ichter, D. Driess, S. Nair, Q. Vuong,
O. Mees, C. Finn, and S. Levine, “FAST: Efficient action tokenization
for vision-language-action models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.09747,
2025.
[22] S. Belkhale, T. Ding, T. Xiao, P. Sermanet, Q. Vuong, J. Tompson,
Y. Chebotar, D. Dwibedi, and D. Sadigh, “RT-H: Action hierarchies
using language,” in Proc. Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2024.
[23] R. Bonatti, S. Vemprala, S. Ma, F. Frujeri, S. Chen, and A. Kapoor,
“PACT: Perception-action causal transformer for autoregressive robotics
pre-training,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.11133, 2022.
[24] Y. Zhou, Q. Liang, S. Zhuang, J. Li, X. Wang, B. Cai, Y. Mo, and
R. Xu, “Action-effect memory pretraining for robot manipulation,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2606.12499, 2026.
[25] Z. Tang, H. Liu, X. Chang, C. Wu, D. Huo, Y. Yang, B. Liu, Z. Cai,
F. Xiong, M. Xu, J. Luo, D. Ma, Z. Ma, and G. Pan, “ALAM:
Algebraically consistent latent transitions for vision-language-action
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.10819, 2026.
[26] S. Ye, J. Jang, B. Jeon, S. Joo, J. Yang, B. Peng, A. Mandlekar, R. Tan,
Y.-W. Chao, B. Y. Lin, L. Liden, K. Lee, J. Gao, L. Zettlemoyer, D. Fox,
and M. Seo, “Latent action pretraining from videos,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Learning Representations (ICLR), 2025.
[27] B. Hu, Z. Li, R. Shao, J. Chen, A. H. Liu, W.-S. Zheng, and L. Nie,
“From abstraction to instantiation: Learning behavioral representation
for vision-language-action model,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Machine Learning
(ICML), 2026.
[28] Q. Bu, Y. Yang, J. Cai, S. Gao, G. Ren, M. Yao, P. Luo, and H. Li,
“UniVLA: Learning to act anywhere with task-centric latent actions,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.06111, 2025.
[29] H. Shi, B. Xie, Y. Liu, L. Sun, F. Liu, T. Wang, E. Zhou, H. Fan,
X. Zhang, and G. Huang, “MemoryVLA: Perceptual-cognitive memory
in vision-language-action models for robotic manipulation,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Learning Representations (ICLR), 2026.
[30] M. Torne, K. Pertsch, H. Walke, K. Vedder, S. Nair, B. Ichter, A. Z. Ren,
H. Wang, J. Tang, K. Stachowicz, K. Dhabalia, M. Equi, Q. Vuong, J. T.
Springenberg, S. Levine, C. Finn, and D. Driess, “MEM: Multi-scale
embodied memory for vision language action models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.03596, 2026.
[31] K. Wang, Z. Gu, Y. Chen, Y. Xu, Q. Ma, J. Yang, Z. Li, Y. Huang,
L. Wang, and P. Su, “DIM-WAM: World-action modeling with diverse
historical event memory,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.27677, 2026.
[32] S. Yang, J. Mu, T. Wei, C. Lu, X. Li, L. Xu, Z. Xue, Z. Yuan, D. Lin,
J. Pang, and H. Xu, “MemoryWAM: Efficient world action modeling
with persistent memory,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.20562, 2026.
[33] G. Lu, W. Guo, C. Zhang, Y. Zhou, H. Jiang, Z. Gao, Y. Tang,
and Z. Wang, “VLA-RL: Towards masterful and general robotic
manipulation with scalable reinforcement learning,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.18719, 2025.
[34] T. Yuan, Z. Dong, Y. Liu, and H. Zhao, “Fast-WAM: Do world
action models need test-time future imagination?” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.16666, 2026.
[35] S. Nasiriany, S. Nasiriany, A. Maddukuri, and Y. Zhu, “RoboCasa365:
A large-scale simulation framework for training and benchmarking
generalist robots,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learning Representations (ICLR),
2026.
[36] Xiaomi Robotics Team, J. Guo, P. Jin, J. Li, P. Li, Y. Li, F. Liu, W. Peng,
O. Qin, Y. Su, N. Sun, Q. Sun, R. Suo, H. Wang, Y. Wang, R. Wu, C. Xia,
L. Zhang, J. Zhao, G. Chen, W. Chen, X. He, B. Li, Q. Li, Z. Li, H. Qu,
W. Song, D. Xiang, Y. Xie, P. Xu, H. Ye, W. Ye, H. Zhao, and Q. Zhou,
“Xiaomi-Robotics-1: Scaling vision-language-action models with over
100k hours of real-world trajectories,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.15330,
2026.


[37] P. Zhou, S. Chen, D. Chen, J. Wang, R. Jin, B. Zhu, Y. Pan, S. Gu,
K. Wang, S. Nan, X. Qiu, C. Qiu, P. Yang, Y. Cai, J. Gao, Y. Li, Y. Fu,
X. Yue, Z. Chen, and J. Luo, “τ0-WM: A unified video-action world
model for robotic manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.01027, 2026.
