SmoothRL: Online Reinforcement Learning During
Asynchronous Execution
Astribot Team
research@astribot.com
Project Page: https://www.astribot.com/research/SmoothRL
Author List in Contributions
Abstract
Deploying robot policies in the physical world requires simultaneously satisfying two fun-
damental desiderata: reliability, as reflected by high task success rates, and smooth real-time
execution. However, deploying state-of-the-art generalist models, including Vision-Language-
Action (VLA) models and World-Action Models (WAMs), presents significant challenges on
both fronts. Achieving the precision and robustness required for real-world deployment ne-
cessitates sample-efficient online reinforcement learning (RL) to adapt pretrained models for
reliable deployment. Meanwhile, the increasing scale of robot foundation models has led to
correspondingly higher inference latency. To satisfy real-time constraints under high latency,
modern systems adopt asynchronous inference together with action chunking, overlapping
policy computation with chunk execution to hide latency and enable smooth control. Despite
their complementary roles, integrating asynchronous execution with gradient-based online
RL remains underexplored. We present SmoothRL, an online RL framework that fine-tunes a
pretrained policy within an asynchronous inference loop. SmoothRL follows a value-gradient
paradigm, directly updating the policy parameters using gradients of the action-value func-
tion with respect to the policy actions. To enable correct optimization under asynchronous
execution, SmoothRL explicitly models the asynchronous inference process during training.
Specifically, each generated action chunk is partitioned by frame index into three regions: a
committed region, which consists of actions committed by the previous inference cycle; an ex-
ecution region, which contains newly generated actions that are executed by the robot; and a
discarded region, which contains actions that will be superseded by the next inference cycle.
Gradients are propagated only through the execution region, ensuring that policy optimization
is aligned with the trajectory distribution induced by asynchronous execution. We evaluate
SmoothRL on real-world robotic tasks requiring high precision, as well as highly dynamic tasks
that necessitate asynchronous execution.
arXiv:2608.29768v1  [cs.RO]  30 Aug 2026


Velocity
Acceleration
Jerk
m/s³
m/s²
m/s
Time
Base Policy
Online RL
Base Policy
Online RL
Base Policy
Online RL
Time
Time
Figure 1 | Top: SmoothRL enables online RL fine-tuning of pretrained robot policies under asynchronous
inference, supporting highly dexterous and dynamic tasks such as throwing an object at a target. Bottom:
SmoothRL produces smoother motion, reducing acceleration and jerk by 52% and 47%, respectively.
Values are RMS measurements of the right end-effector’s XYZ motion over each action chunk during a
real autonomous throwing rollout.
1. Introduction
Recent advances in Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models and World-Action Models (WAMs)
have demonstrated remarkable progress toward endowing robots with general manipulation
capabilities [40, 42–49]. However, deploying such generalist policies in the physical world
requires simultaneously addressing two fundamental challenges: reliability and smooth real-
time execution. Achieving the robustness required for diverse real-world tasks such as cutting
open sealed packages demands sample-efficient online reinforcement learning (RL). Meanwhile,
the increasing scale of robot foundation models has led to correspondingly higher inference
latency. Under synchronous execution, this latency lies directly on the control path: the robot
must pause at every chunk boundary while waiting for the next forward pass to complete. When
success depends on maintaining continuous motion, such pauses can severely degrade both
task success and execution efficiency. Modern robot systems therefore adopt action chunking
together with asynchronous inference, overlapping policy inference with action execution.
Asynchronous execution eliminates these pauses but introduces a discontinuity of its own:
each incoming chunk is generated from an earlier observation, so switching to it can produce
a discontinuity at the junction. A family of chunk-stitching methods [1–4] therefore studies
how to maintain continuity between newly generated actions and those already committed for
execution. Although reliability and smooth real-time execution are complementary requirements
for real-world deployment, they have largely been studied in isolation. Existing online RL
methods typically optimize policies assuming synchronous execution, while deployment almost
invariably relies on asynchronous inference. This mismatch causes the policy to be optimized
under dynamics that differ from those encountered at test time. We argue that online RL
should instead be performed under the same asynchronous execution paradigm used during
deployment: Reinforce in Deployment.
2


Pursuing reliability and smooth real-time execution simultaneously reduces the design space to
three essential requirements. Online: the policy improves from the data it is currently generating,
rather than through offline training rounds. Asynchronous: inference overlaps execution so
that model inference latency does not limit the control frequency. Value-gradient: the gradient
of the action-value function with respect to the policy actions is backpropagated into the policy
parameters, allowing the learning signal to directly optimize the policy. Existing approaches
each sacrifice one of these requirements, in the same order. Offline RL separates learning from
deployment by conducting RL in offline rounds, leaving deployment free to be asynchronous.
Estimated advantages influence policy updates through reweighting or conditioning, rather
than direct gradient optimization through the value function [29, 30]. Synchronous Online RL
performs online reinforcement learning by backpropagating gradients from the value function
𝑄into the policy parameters. While effective for adapting pretrained policies [7, 9, 11–13],
these methods assume synchronous execution. Asynchronous Restricted Online RL considers
online adaptation under asynchronous execution. However, policy optimization is confined
to a latent steering space rather than the policy parameters themselves, making the achievable
improvement ultimately bounded by the decoding capability of the pretrained base policy [31].
Asynchronous Online RL, which satisfies all three requirements, is the focus of this work.
Under asynchronous execution, each generated action chunk is only partially executed before
a newly inferred chunk supersedes its remaining actions. However, policy updates should be
driven exclusively by the consequences of the actions the robot actually executes. Unlike the
three settings above, asynchronous online RL cannot avoid gradient contamination by design:
taking the value-gradient pathway while deploying asynchronously inevitably exposes the
policy parameter update to un-executed, superseded actions. The objective itself must therefore
eliminate this contamination, rather than relying on the execution schedule.
We present SmoothRL, a general framework for online RL fine-tuning of pretrained robot
policies under asynchronous inference, enabling highly dexterous and dynamic tasks, such
as throwing an object at a target, as illustrated in Figure 1. The framework follows the value-
gradient paradigm, where the action-value function 𝑄updates the policy parameters directly
through its gradient with respect to the policy actions. This paradigm admits either fine-tuning
the pretrained base policy directly or learning a lightweight policy on top of a frozen one; we
adopt the latter as one instantiation, where a frozen base policy generates reference action
chunks under a receding horizon and a trainable attached network in the raw action space
carries all learnable parameters. Under asynchronous execution, each generated action chunk is
partitioned according to its execution status into three regions: a committed region, containing
actions already issued during the previous inference cycle; an execution region, containing newly
generated actions that are actually executed by the robot; and a discarded region, containing
newly generated actions that are superseded by the next inference cycle before execution. The
boundaries between these regions are determined by two distinct forward passes and are
unknown at chunk generation time, unless the inference loop is constrained to a fixed latency
budget. Moreover, because inference and execution overlap, a chunk begins execution only after
the preceding in-flight inference has completed, making each decision inherently concurrent [35]:
the action chunk currently in flight is part of the state against which the next chunk is generated.
The two contributions below formalize the resulting implications for training:
• Gradient truncation to the execution region. Holding the asynchronous loop to a latency
budget of 𝑛frames fixes both boundaries of the execution window, making the three
action-chunk regions a function of frame index alone. The value gradient ∇𝑎𝑄is then
computed only with respect to the execution region 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛), ensuring that policy updates
3


depend exclusively on actions whose consequences are observed. The critic, however,
retains the committed region as part of its input for two reasons: the chunk-skip bootstrap
is unbiased only when the critic is conditioned on the action sequence that generated
the interval reward, while the action currently in flight provides the state augmentation
required to model the concurrent decision process.
• Asynchronous execution embedded in the training loop. The asynchronous inference
loop - where policy forward passes and action execution overlap in time - runs during
training rollouts and not only at deployment. Replay trajectories therefore record the
actions the robot actually executed under the same timing and execution schedule the
objective is defined against, ensuring the policy is never optimized under dynamics it will
not encounter at deployment.
A further benefit of operating in the raw action space is that human interventions lie in the same
space as the policy outputs. Consequently, a demonstrated chunk can be used directly, without
latent inversion or a separate offline data-collection stage: it serves as a regression target for
the policy under a behavioral cloning loss over the execution region and as a transition for the
critic under the standard TD backup. We evaluate SmoothRL on a suite of real-world robotic
manipulation tasks requiring high precision, as well as highly dynamic tasks that necessitate
asynchronous execution.
2. Related Work
We first review mechanisms for asynchronous policy deployment, and then organize existing
RL approaches along the three dimensions introduced in §1: whether learning is online or
offline, whether deployment is synchronous or asynchronous, and whether value gradients are
propagated directly to the policy.
2.1. Asynchronous Policy Deployment
Receding-horizon action chunking has become the standard deployment paradigm for contem-
porary large-scale generalist robot policies [5, 6, 40, 42, 47, 48]. Since generating each action
chunk requires a complete policy forward pass, typically taking tens to hundreds of milliseconds,
asynchronous inference is a practical necessity: synchronous per-segment forwards would pin
control frequency to an unacceptable rate [36–38]. Consequently, each newly generated chunk is
conditioned on a stale observation and is unaware of the actions executed since that observation
was captured. As a result, successive chunks generally fail to connect smoothly along the
executed trajectory, introducing velocity or acceleration discontinuities at chunk boundaries.
One line of work addresses this problem through consistency-aware chunk-stitching [1–4].
These methods constrain the already-consumed prefix of each newly generated chunk to match
the actions that have already been executed, while leaving the remaining horizon unconstrained.
A related approach instead corrects an in-flight chunk using newly acquired observations [39].
Over time, these methods have evolved from inference-time guidance external to the policy
toward training-time modeling within the policy, and from hard prefix constraints toward
soft interpolation. An orthogonal line of work employs trajectory blending [6, 29], which
smooths chunk boundaries by post-processing the overlapping predictions of successive chunks
using a decaying interpolation weight. Rather than constraining the policy outputs themselves,
trajectory blending operates only after multiple chunks have been generated. Although both
4


approaches eliminate discontinuities, they differ fundamentally in when the executed action is
determined: chunk stitching fixes the action before it is emitted by the policy, whereas trajectory
blending determines it only after the chunks overlapping that instant become available. This
distinction is inconsequential for imitation learning and offline RL, where both families have
primarily been studied. However, it becomes decisive for the online RL objective, which requires
the action at which the value function 𝑄is evaluated to be exactly the action executed by the
robot, while simultaneously preserving a differentiable path from that action to the policy
parameters. This requirement raises a new question for asynchronous online RL, which we
address in this work.
2.2. Offline RL
Offline RL consumes the learning signal entirely during training, leaving the policy fixed at
deployment. Methods such as 𝜒0 [29] and RECAP [30] support asynchronous deployment:
the advantage is estimated by a separate value model and influences the policy only through
weighting (AWR [50]) or conditioning (CFG-style guidance [51]), rather than by backpropagating
value gradients into the policy parameters. Conversely, CO-RFT [10] performs all chunk-level
𝑄-learning offline (Chunked Cal-QL) but adopts synchronous deployment. The coexistence of
both deployment modes within this class shows that, for offline RL, asynchronous execution is
merely an inference-scheduling choice and does not alter the learning signal. In contrast, our
method closes the actor-critic loop around real-robot execution, where the mismatch between
generated and executed actions directly affects the learning signal.
2.3. Synchronous Online RL
This body of work performs online actor-critic updates in the same loop as robot rollout.
All methods in this category follow the value-gradient paradigm, in which the action-value
function backpropagates gradients directly into the policy parameters. They differ primarily
in where reinforcement learning is applied: either on a lightweight module attached to a
frozen pretrained policy, or on the entire policy through end-to-end fine-tuning. One line
of work freezes the pretrained VLA and learns a chunk-level policy on top. RLT [9], whose
architecture our implementation directly adopts, appends a learnable RL token to a frozen VLA
and conditions a chunk-level actor on both the resulting representation and the VLA reference
action. The actor is optimized with a TD3-style [58] off-policy objective, while a behavior-cloning
regularizer constrains learning to local corrections. EXPO-FT [7] similarly attaches a residual
editing head to a frozen VLA and optimizes it using a SAC-style [60] actor objective together
with Best-of-𝑁selection, placing it within the same value-gradient framework. Other methods
retain the frozen-base interface but learn per-step residual policies rather than chunk-level
ones [11–13, 27, 28], reducing the RL optimization unit from an action chunk to a single control
step. Chunk-level off-policy methods outside the frozen-policy setting [34, 52] nevertheless
adopt the same chunk-level optimization unit as our approach. This shared optimization unit
motivates our formalization of the action chunk as the fundamental RL optimization unit
(§3.2). In a per-step formulation, actions carry no frame index within a chunk, making it
impossible to express gradients that apply only to a selected sub-segment of that chunk. A
second line of work applies reinforcement learning directly to the entire policy. Representative
examples include end-to-end token-level optimization for VLAs [15–18], reinforcement learning
of flow- and diffusion-based policies [8, 19–22], and consistency-distillation approaches [24, 25].
FQL [23], while operating in an offline-to-online rather than closed-loop real-robot setting,
5


distills a pretrained flow policy into a one-step policy that directly receives value gradients,
a design also explored as a variant of QAM [55]. LWD [26] closes the loop on real-robot
execution by performing fleet-scale online updates with a chunk-level critic and propagating
∇𝑎𝑄into a flow-policy action head through an adjoint-matching formulation. Despite their
differences, all methods in this category assume synchronous receding-horizon execution, so
partial chunk execution never enters their formulation. By contrast, opening the deployment
loop to asynchronous inference turns partial execution into a constraint on the value-gradient
pathway. Our method addresses this constraint through chunk-role partitioning and gradient
truncation, both defined over frame indices within an action chunk. Because the formulation
operates directly on raw action chunks rather than a particular policy parameterization, it
applies equally to residual-policy adaptation and end-to-end policy fine-tuning.
2.4. Asynchronous Restricted Online RL
Online actor-critic learning requires exact chunk transitions, yet asynchronous execution causes
each generated action chunk to be only partially executed, contaminating those transitions.
Existing methods avoid this issue by keeping the value gradient, ∇𝑎𝑄, away from the raw-
action policy parameters. Instead, reinforcement learning is performed in latent space, through
value-based action selection, or by using the value function only to rank or verify sampled
candidates [53, 54]. Our method instead follows the value-gradient paradigm, embedding
asynchronous execution directly into the RL objective as a known optimization constraint. GR-
RL [31] performs online learning under asynchronous execution, but places the RL optimization
variable in the latent noise space of a frozen diffusion policy [32]. It learns a latent-noise predictor,
while a frozen decoder maps the optimized latent back to actions. Optimizing the latent noise
therefore selects among actions already represented by the pretrained policy prior. Consequently,
partial execution is bounded in its effect rather than eliminated: if value estimation includes
un-executed portions of an action chunk, the resulting error may alter which latent candidate
is selected, but the frozen decoder ensures that every issued action remains within the action
distribution represented by the pretrained prior. This property bounds not only the error but
also the attainable improvement, which remains limited by the expressive capacity of the frozen
decoder. Moreover, human intervention cannot be incorporated as direct policy regression
targets without unreliable latent inversion. In contrast, our method optimizes directly in raw
action space, allowing human intervention data to serve simultaneously as supervised regression
targets and value-labeled online transitions.
3. Method
Our work addresses one single challenge:
How can online RL fine-tuning be integrated into an asynchronous deployment loop ?
3.1. The Asynchronous Inference Loop
We exclusively consider an asynchronous inference setting to satisfy the smooth real-time
execution requirements of real-world deployment, which has become the standard paradigm for
contemporary large-scale generalist robot policies. The base policy infers the next action chunk
while the robot continues executing the current one. Meanwhile, the control process operates at
6


(a) latency fluctuates: 𝑑𝑘and 𝑐𝑘vary from chunk to chunk
chunk 𝑘−1
· · ·
chunk 𝑘
· · ·
committed (𝑑𝑘)
execution (𝑐𝑘)
discarded
chunk 𝑘+1
prediction start
prediction end
· · ·
𝑑𝑘+1
𝑐𝑘+1
(b) the same schedule held to the budget 𝑛: 𝑑𝑘= 𝑐𝑘= 𝑛for every 𝑘
chunk 𝑘
· · ·
0
𝑛
2𝑛
𝐻
chunk 𝑘+1
· · ·
committed
execution
discarded
Figure 2 | Chunk role partitioning under asynchronous execution. The committed region reuses actions
already issued by the previous inference, the execution region contains the frames executed from the
current chunk, and the discarded region contains frames superseded by the next inference. Chunk 𝑘’s
committed length 𝑑𝑘is determined by the latency of its own inference, whereas its execution length 𝑐𝑘
is determined by the latency of the subsequent inference cycle. (a) Under variable inference latency, 𝑑𝑘
and 𝑐𝑘fluctuate independently across chunks. (b) The same schedule under a latency budget of 𝑛, where
𝑑𝑘= 𝑐𝑘= 𝑛for every chunk, yielding a fixed execution window [𝑛, 2𝑛). Section 3.1 details the partition,
and Section 3.3 defines the learning objective based on the partition.
the desired control frequency and always issues the latest available action without waiting for
inference to complete; once a new chunk becomes available, it immediately takes over execution.
This design effectively hides inference latency.
Asynchronous execution introduces a fundamental consequence: a policy-generated action
chunk is only partially executed by the environment. We therefore partition each action chunk
of horizon 𝐻into three regions by frame index, according to how the asynchronous schedule
uses the generated actions. The committed region [0, 𝑑) contains the frames that elapse during
the inference latency of this chunk. Its length 𝑑is determined by the current inference time. By
the time the chunk becomes available, these frames have already passed: the previous chunk
has supplied the corresponding actions, and the predictions in this region can never affect the
environment through the current chunk. The execution region [𝑑, 𝑑+ 𝑐) corresponds to the
interval during which this chunk is the latest available policy output before the next inference
completes. Its length 𝑐is determined by the arrival time of the subsequent chunk. Every action
in this region is issued to the robot exactly as generated, making it the only part of the chunk
that directly determines the resulting environment trajectory. The remaining discarded region
contains frames after the next chunk becomes available. These actions are superseded by the
newly arrived chunk and therefore never reach the environment.
Stabilizing the loop with a latency budget.
The boundaries between chunk regions, illustrated
in Figure 2 (a), are stochastic in real deployments. Since they are determined by different
inference cycles, they fluctuate independently and are unknown when an action chunk is
generated. Rather than modeling this stochasticity, we eliminate it through a fixed latency
budget. We estimate an upper bound 𝑛on the inference time and enforce a scheduled execution
7


loop: each chunk is requested 𝑛control steps before its first frame is due. If inference completes
earlier, the system waits, ensuring that chunk handover always occurs at the predefined time.
Consequently, both region lengths are fixed by the same constant, 𝑑= 𝑐= 𝑛. For any horizon
𝐻≥2𝑛, the committed region is therefore [0, 𝑛), the execution region is [𝑛, 2𝑛), and the discarded
region is [2𝑛, 𝐻) (Figure 2 (b)). The slack between the actual inference latency and the budget
𝑛is converted into waiting time rather than used to exploit fresher observations. In exchange,
every chunk is executed over an identical window determined solely by its frame indices.
3.2. Gradient-based RL in Continuous Action Space
This subsection reviews the general formulation of continuous-action reinforcement learning
used throughout the paper. Given a Markov decision process (MDP), a policy 𝜋seeks to
maximize the expected discounted return. Value-based methods define the action-value function
𝑄𝜋(𝑠, 𝑎), which satisfies the Bellman equation:
𝑄𝜋(𝑠, 𝑎) = E𝑟, 𝑠′∼𝑃

𝑟+ 𝛾𝑄𝜋(𝑠′, 𝜋(𝑠′))

,
(1)
where 𝛾is the discount factor and 𝑠′ is the successor state reached after executing action 𝑎in
state 𝑠. Off-policy actor-critic methods alternate between two updates. The critic learns the
action-value function 𝑄by fitting the temporal-difference (TD) target given by the right-hand
side of the Bellman equation using transitions sampled from a replay buffer. The actor then
updates the policy parameters to increase the predicted action value, i.e., to maximize 𝑄.
In continuous action spaces, maximizing the action value can be realized through two distinct
routes. One route improves actions through candidate selection, advantage weighting, or
latent-space guidance, without backpropagating ∇𝑎𝑄to the policy parameters that generate
the executed actions. Our framework instead follows the value-gradient route: the gradient
of the action-value function with respect to the action, ∇𝑎𝑄, is backpropagated through the
deterministic policy 𝑎= 𝜋𝜃(𝑠) to the policy parameters 𝜃,
∇𝜃𝐽= E

∇𝑎𝑄(𝑠, 𝑎)

𝑎=𝜋𝜃(𝑠) · ∇𝜃𝜋𝜃(𝑠)

,
(2)
so that 𝑄directly updates the policy through action-space gradients.
Action Chunk as the Atomic Unit of RL.
We formulate reinforcement learning over action
chunks, treating each chunk as an atomic action in the underlying MDP. For a chunk spanning
𝐻frames, the transition is represented as (𝑠𝑡, 𝑎𝑡:𝑡+𝐻, 𝑟𝑡, 𝑠𝑡+𝐻), where 𝑎𝑡:𝑡+𝐻is the action chunk
generated by the policy at state 𝑠𝑡, 𝑟𝑡is the discounted return accumulated during execution of
the chunk, and 𝑠𝑡+𝐻is the observation after the chunk has been fully executed. When indexing
frames relative to the start of a chunk rather than to the episode - as in the chunk regions
defined in §3.1 - we denote the chunk by 𝑎[0,𝐻) and a sub-segment by 𝑎[𝑖,𝑗). The corresponding
action-value function is written 𝑄(𝑠𝑡, 𝑎𝑡:𝑡+𝐻), and its temporal-difference update follows the
chunk-skip Bellman backup:
𝑄(𝑠𝑡, 𝑎𝑡:𝑡+𝐻) ←𝑟𝑡+ 𝛾𝐻𝑄 𝑠𝑡+𝐻, 𝜋(𝑠𝑡+𝐻).
(3)
This backup remains unbiased because the critic is conditioned on the action sequence that
generated the reward over the corresponding interval. The same formulation has since been
adopted by recent chunk-level RL methods (§2.3), where the action span on which the critic
is conditioned need not coincide with the span for which the policy is optimized [14]. Our
framework likewise adopts this formulation, with the modification required to account for
asynchronous execution.
8


3.3. Chunk-Level RL under Asynchronous Deployment
Under asynchronous deployment, directly concatenating the two components above - allowing
∇𝑎𝑄to backpropagate through the entire chunk - would cause policy updates to depend on
generated actions that never reached the environment. Instead, we explicitly treat “which
segment is actually executed” as a known constraint imposed by the deployment process.
The regions introduced in §3.1 were originally defined solely by the execution schedule; here,
they are assigned distinct training roles. From this point onward, the span over which the
objective is defined is restricted to the first 2𝑛frames of the chunk, with the committed and
execution regions of §3.1 each occupying one budget interval; the horizon 𝐻the base policy
emits may be longer. We denote by ˜𝑎[0,𝑛) the actions actually executed by the robot in the
committed region of the current chunk. These actions were issued by the preceding chunk
and are treated as fixed, regardless of how they were generated. The objective defined in this
subsection is therefore:
max
𝜃
E
h
𝑄 𝑠, ˜𝑎[0,𝑛), 𝜋𝜃(𝑠)[𝑛,2𝑛)
i
s.t.
( ˜𝑎[0,𝑛), 𝜋𝜃(𝑠)[𝑛,2𝑛)) ∈E
(4)
where E denotes the set of chunks over [0, 2𝑛) that are physically executable by the robot.
Importantly, admissibility is a property of the full chunk span, not merely the execution region:
a chunk is included only when its execution is valid within both regions and remains consistent
across the boundary at frame 𝑛. The discarded region [2𝑛, 𝐻), which falls outside the effective
execution horizon, is therefore excluded entirely from the objective above. The chunk-skip
backup of Eq. (3) is restricted to the same span: the interval it spans is [0, 2𝑛) rather than the
full horizon 𝐻, so the reward 𝑟𝑡accumulates over those 2𝑛frames, the bootstrap state is 𝑠𝑡+2𝑛,
and the discount exponent is 2𝑛. This modification preserves the required unbiased backup: the
critic is conditioned on the action sequence that actually generated the reward over the interval,
namely ˜𝑎[0,𝑛) followed by 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛).
Value gradient truncation.
From the policy’s perspective, the committed region induces
no valid environmental feedback for policy updates: as described in §3.1, these actions are
overwritten by those issued from the preceding chunk and therefore do not form a valid gradient
path for the current policy. Accordingly, the value gradient is truncated to the execution region:
∇𝑎𝑄is computed only with respect to 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛). This truncation establishes a crucial identity: the
segment receiving the value gradient is simultaneously the policy output and the action actually
executed by the environment, making the resulting gradient well-defined with respect to the
policy parameters. Importantly, the truncation applies only to the gradient path, while the critic
continues to operate on the full action chunk.
Critic over the full action span.
Asynchronous execution turns this setting into a concurrent
decision problem. The execution region does not begin acting from 𝑠𝑡, but from 𝑠𝑡+𝑛, with the
intervening frames being governed by the chunk already in flight. A critic conditioned only
on (𝑠𝑡, 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛)) would therefore marginalize over the unknown distribution of in-flight chunks
present in the replay buffer, which, in the off-policy setting, reflects behaviors induced by older
policies. A concurrent decision process requires augmenting the state with two quantities [35]:
the action currently in flight and the remaining time until its completion. In our setting, the
latency budget fixes the latter to the constant 𝑛, while chunk-stitching consistency makes the
9


former directly available at generation time: for each newly generated chunk, its committed
region exactly corresponds to the actions already issued by the preceding chunk. Recording
these issued actions therefore provides the required state augmentation both freely and exactly.
The same latency budget that determines this augmentation also fixes the timescale of the
bootstrap chain, which we analyze further in §5.
Smoothness.
The executable-set constraint restricts not the frames over which the policy can
act, but the set of chunks over which the optimization is performed. The actor also conditions on
the committed region, but for a different reason than the critic: since the committed and execution
regions are connected at frame index 𝑛, a candidate chunk must be selected with awareness of the
trajectory it must continue from. Smoothness inherited from the pretrained policy is provided by
the demonstrations, rather than explicitly enforced. However, once the value objective increases
𝑄over the execution region, this smoothness is no longer guaranteed. Continuity must therefore
be reintroduced as an explicit constraint in the objective. The optimization consequently searches
only over E, transferring the requirement of smoothness back to the policy. The formulation
above is defined with respect to the timing model in §3.1; therefore, transitions must be collected
under the same execution semantics. The asynchronous loop runs during training rollouts rather
than only at deployment, ensuring that the replay buffer records the actions actually executed
by the robot. In contrast, transitions collected under synchronous execution would contain no
explicit region boundaries for the objective to align with.
Exploration is fundamental to reinforcement learning. However, exploration on a real robot is
costly: failed trials consume wall-clock time and, for contact-rich tasks, may incur hardware
wear or damage. Consequently, human intervention during impending policy failures has
become a standard component of real-robot RL rather than merely a convenience [7, 9, 28, 30].
The objective above naturally accommodates such interventions without modification. The
critic takes a state and an action chunk as input, and the target in Eq. (3) is independent of
the controller that generated the chunk; thus, intervened episodes can be stored in the replay
buffer as ordinary transitions. The state augmentation introduced above remains valid under
intervention: ˜𝑎[0,𝑛) is defined by the actions actually issued rather than the actions proposed
by the policy, and therefore directly records human commands when intervention occurs.
Interpreting human actions as value-estimated actions requires no additional transformation in
our formulation, unlike settings where the RL variable is represented in a latent action space
(§2.4). §3.4 describes the corresponding intervention mechanism.
Under asynchronous deployment, two actions must be distinguished: the action emitted by the
policy and the action executed by the robot. Optimizing 𝑄with respect to the former improves
behavior only when the two coincide. Furthermore, the action at which 𝑄is evaluated must
admit a valid gradient path back to 𝜃. We refer to these two requirements as agreement and
differentiability, respectively. Issuing the policy output directly satisfies both by construction,
which is the setting assumed in Eq. (4); this is precisely where the two boundary-smoothing
families discussed in §2.1 diverge. A consistency constraint modifies the chunk before execution,
ensuring that the policy output and the executed action remain identical. In contrast, blending
is performed only after both the new and previous chunks become available. To preserve the
agreement requirement, the critic must evaluate the blended action actually executed by the
robot. The truncation principle introduced above - that gradients propagate only through actions
that enter the environment - extends naturally to this setting. The value gradient should be
computed with respect to every chunk contributing to the executed window, restricted to the
segment that the chunk contributes. Because these segments are disjoint across transitions, each
10


chunk is differentiated exactly once. This extension requires an objective horizon exceeding 2𝑛,
an additional actor forward pass for each contributing chunk to recover its output under the
current policy parameters, and a reformulation of the continuity constraints around the mixing
operator (§5). For simplicity, we adopt direct policy output execution and enforce smoothness
through constrained optimization.
Buffer
Asynchronous Execution
Base policy
Online RL
Committed
Execution
Discarded
Intervention
Chunk0
Chunk1
Chunk2
Chunk1
Chunk2
Chunk0
t
0
n
2n
3n
4n
VLA
Actor               
Critic 
Image
Issued action
Encoder
Action chunk
Feature
…
Action chunk 
Lang
Rollout
Data
Update
t
t+n
t+2n
Update
t
t+n
t+2n
Figure 3 | One instantiation of our asynchronous online RL framework. The frozen base policy produces
a latent representation 𝑧𝑡and a reference action chunk ¯𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛. A trainable attached network takes
[𝑧𝑡, 𝑠𝑡, ¯𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛] as input and predicts a bounded correction, which is added to the reference action to
produce the final action chunk. The critic is conditioned on the corrected action chunk, while gradients
are propagated to the actor only through the execution region (§3.3). Human intervention is applied
to the issued action in the same raw action space, allowing intervened trajectories to be incorporated
directly into training (§3.4).
3.4. Instantiation
We provide a concrete instantiation of the proposed asynchronous online RL framework, as
illustrated in Figure 3. Our implementation follows the RLT [9] skeleton: a frozen base policy
generates reference action chunks, while a lightweight TD3-style actor-critic accesses the base
policy’s internal representations through an RL token and predicts a residual action correction.
The following paragraphs clarify what this skeleton provides and where our implementation
departs from it. The skeleton requires no structural modification to satisfy the requirements of
§3.3 : it provides a chunk-level actor, making frame-indexed gradient truncation expressible;
operates in the raw action space, eliminating the need to invert human interventions; and
exposes a critic input to which the committed region can be appended as a stop-gradient term.
11


A1
A1*
A0
Inference starts
Inference finishes
Inference delay, n
Issued action
Absolute 
Intervention
(a) Absolute intervention.
A1
A1*
Residual 
Intervention
A0
Inference starts
Inference finishes
Inference delay, n
Issued action
(b) Residual intervention.
Figure 4 | Two human intervention modes during policy deployment. Under a, the teleoperated action
chunk is issued directly and the actor output is discarded. Under b, the human input is added to the actor
output, allowing the operator to modify the policy-generated chunk. Both modes are treated identically
downstream: the action actually issued is recorded in ˜𝑎[0,𝑛) and used as the BC target.
Keeping the base policy frozen and confining all trainable parameters to a lightweight attached
network also makes each gradient step inexpensive relative to a base-policy forward pass. This
is important because the update rate is bounded by rollout throughput, while the small number
of trainable parameters makes online optimization practical at the data volume generated by a
real robot. The choices that follow are therefore implementation details rather than requirements
of the framework: §3.1–§3.3 are formulated in terms of generic 𝜋and 𝑄, and none of their
arguments depends on this particular instantiation.
Human intervention.
To evolve the policy during deployment, we support two human in-
tervention modes, as illustrated in Figure 4: absolute intervention and residual intervention.
Intervention is activated and deactivated by a switch on the teleoperation device. The training
loop continues while the human is in control: both the base policy and the attached network
continue to perform inference, while only the issued action is modified. Under absolute inter-
vention, the teleoperated chunk is issued directly and the actor output is discarded. Under
residual intervention, the human input is added to the actor output, allowing the operator to
modify the policy-generated chunk rather than replace it. Each mode is supported by a suitable
input device: absolute intervention uses VR teleoperation, where the operator’s hand pose
directly specifies the target action, while residual intervention uses a hand controller, where
stick displacements specify action deltas.
The two intervention modes are suited to different task regimes. Residual intervention preserves
the temporal structure of the underlying action chunk while modifying its trajectory, allowing
the operator to correct the policy without disrupting its velocity profile. We therefore use it
12


for dynamic tasks. Absolute intervention, in contrast, gives the operator full control over the
action chunk and is therefore suited to tasks requiring greater flexibility and high precision,
where the demonstrated motion may differ substantially from the trajectory proposed by the
policy. Despite their different interaction mechanisms, the two modes are treated identically
downstream. The action actually issued by the operator is recorded in ˜𝑎[0,𝑛) and used as the
BC target. Chunks are flagged as intervened at the chunk level, and this flag determines the
BC target for the execution region: 𝑎target
[𝑛,2𝑛) is the action chunk actually issued for an intervened
chunk and the base-policy reference otherwise, while the committed region always uses the
reference action as its target. The input to 𝑄is independent of the intervention flag: because the
committed region records the action actually issued, it contains the human actions whenever
the preceding chunk was intervened. Thus, the state augmentation introduced in §3.3 continues
to faithfully represent the action actually in flight.
The base-policy interface.
The skeleton’s interface is preserved: the trainable networks access
the base policy through a compressed token of its internal representation, while the actor
is conditioned on the reference action chunk generated by the base policy. Let 𝜋base denote
the frozen base policy and 𝐸the encoder that reads its internal representation during chunk
inference and compresses it into the RL token 𝑧𝑡= 𝐸(𝜋base). The base policy runs under a TT-RTC
scheduler [2]to maintain the timing guarantees of §3.1. Each base-policy forward pass therefore
produces both the reference action chunk ¯𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛= 𝜋base(𝑠𝑡) and the RL token 𝑧𝑡on which the
trainable networks are conditioned. The committed region provided to 𝑄remains ˜𝑎[0,𝑛) as
defined in §3.3, which coincides with the reference chunk only in the absence of intervention.
For the concrete instantiation, the state argument of the generic 𝜋and 𝑄is represented by the
pair (𝑧𝑡, 𝑠𝑡). Consequently, each transition must store this pair for the bootstrap state so that
the actor target at 𝑠𝑡+2𝑛can be evaluated, together with the committed region of that next state,
which becomes available only one decision step later during rollout. Algorithm 1 summarizes
the complete training loop described in the following two paragraphs: an asynchronous rollout
process that generates transitions and an off-policy optimization process that consumes them,
with both operating concurrently over a shared replay buffer.
The critic.
The critic is an MLP with LayerNorm [57] applied to every hidden layer. It
takes [𝑧𝑡, 𝑠𝑡, ˜𝑎[0,𝑛), 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛)] as input and predicts a scalar value. The target construction follows
TD3 [58]: the target actor’s action chunk is perturbed with clipped Gaussian noise, followed
by a pessimistic estimate over the resulting target values. Three aspects, however, depart from
the original skeleton. First, the action chunk is explicitly partitioned into the committed and
execution regions, with both provided to the critic as inputs. Second, the backup follows the
chunk-skipping formulation rather than a single-decision backup. Third, the fixed pair of
𝑄networks is expanded into a REDQ-style [56] ensemble of 𝑁independent critics, with the
minimum taken over a randomly sampled subset of target critics rather than over the full pair.
The actor.
The actor is an MLP of the same architecture. It takes [𝑧𝑡, 𝑠𝑡, ¯𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛] as input and
outputs an action chunk 𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛of length 2𝑛, as illustrated in Figure 3. In the residual mode used
in this work, the network predicts a bounded correction to the reference action, which is added
to the reference chunk to produce the final action chunk. The actor loss consists of three terms,
defined below for the actor output 𝑎= 𝜋𝜃(𝑧, 𝑠, ¯𝑎). The first two losses follow the RLT skeleton: a
𝑄-maximization term regularized by a BC anchor in the spirit of TD3+BC [59], where the anchor
13


is defined against the reference action rather than a dataset action. Specifically, these correspond
to the 𝑄term introduced in §3.3 and a per-frame MSE loss against a target action 𝑎target. The
third term is specific to our framework: a smoothness regularizer that instantiates the executable
set E introduced in §3.3. We characterize E by per-frame bounds on velocity, acceleration, and
jerk, and relax the corresponding membership constraint into a penalty with overall weight
𝑤smooth and relative weight 𝑤𝑘for each derivative order:
Lactor = −𝑄 𝑧, 𝑠, sg[˜𝑎[0,𝑛)], 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛)
 + 𝑤bc ·
𝑎−𝑎target2
[0,2𝑛) + 𝑤smooth
3
∑︁
𝑘=1
𝑤𝑘·
Δ𝑘𝑎
2
[0,2𝑛),
(5)
where sg[·] denotes the stop-gradient operator: the full action chunk is provided to 𝑄, while
gradients with respect to 𝜃propagate only through the execution region.
The replay buffer.
The replay buffer is initialized by rolling out the base policy alone under the
deployment loop of §3.1, with the attached network inactive; subsequent transitions collected
by the asynchronous rollout are appended to the same buffer. This initialization ensures that
every transition is collected under the timing assumptions of the objective, rather than from
teleoperated demonstrations, and provides the critic with an initial fit to the behavior from
which policy improvement begins. The reward 𝑟introduced in §3.2 is sparse: it is assigned only
at the end of each episode, with success determined by an operator observing the rollout.
The update schedule.
Updates are paced by rollout progress rather than wall-clock time.
Process 2 of Algorithm 1 performs 𝐺critic iterations for every trajectory appended by the rollout,
yielding an update-to-data ratio that keeps the update rate bounded by rollout throughput,
regardless of the choice of 𝐺. The actor and target networks are updated less frequently: one
actor update and one soft target-network update are performed every 𝐷critic iterations.
4. Experiments
This section evaluates the SmoothRL framework on real-robot manipulation tasks. We consider
three tasks spanning two complementary regimes - high-speed dynamic manipulation and
high-precision bimanual manipulation - to assess the framework under the competing demands
of real-time responsiveness and execution reliability. We use 𝜋0.5 [41], fine-tuned for each task,
as the frozen base policy. For each task, we compare its success rate before and after online RL
fine-tuning within the SmoothRL framework.
4.1. Platform
All three tasks are performed on Astribot S1, a mobile bimanual robot with 25 degrees of
freedom, comprising two 7-DoF arms with parallel grippers, a 4-DoF torso, a 2-DoF head, and a
3-DoF wheeled base. For the base policy, the observation consists of three camera streams (head,
left wrist, and right wrist), each processed at 224 × 224 resolution, together with the robot’s
proprioceptive joint state. The base policy issues a 31-dimensional action at 30 Hz, comprising
9-dimensional Cartesian delta poses for the left arm, right arm, and torso end-effector, along
14


Algorithm 1 SmoothRL training in the asynchronous inference loop
Require: frozen 𝜋base with RL-token encoder 𝐸, budget 𝑛, discount 𝛾, soft-update rate 𝜏, step
size 𝜂, update-to-data ratio 𝐺, actor delay 𝐷
Initialize: 𝜋𝜃and {𝑄𝜙𝑖}𝑁
𝑖=1
targets 𝜃−←𝜃and 𝜙−
𝑖←𝜙𝑖
replay buffer D
˜𝑎[0,𝑛) ←the hold action
⊲the robot is stationary until the first chunk arrives
Processes 1 and 2 run concurrently, sharing D and the parameters.
1: Process 1: asynchronous rollout
2: for 𝑡= 0, 𝑛, 2𝑛, . . . do
3:
observe 𝑠𝑡
4:
¯𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛←𝜋base(𝑠𝑡, ˜𝑎[0,𝑛)); 𝑧𝑡←𝐸(𝜋base)
5:
𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛←𝜋𝜃(𝑧𝑡, 𝑠𝑡, ¯𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛)
6:
𝑎[0,𝑛) ←˜𝑎[0,𝑛)
⊲committed region over [𝑡, 𝑡+𝑛)
7:
𝑎target
[0,2𝑛) ←¯𝑎[0,2𝑛)
8:
if teleoperation then
9:
𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛) ←𝑎human
[𝑛,2𝑛)
⊲absolute or residual, §3.4
10:
𝑎target
[𝑛,2𝑛) ←𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛)
11:
issue 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛)
12:
record a transition 𝜏𝑡=(𝑠𝑡, 𝑧𝑡, ˜𝑎[0,𝑛), 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛), 𝑎target
[0,2𝑛))
⊲finished at 𝑡+2𝑛
13:
if 𝑡≥2𝑛then
14:
𝜏𝑡−2𝑛←𝜏𝑡−2𝑛∪(𝑟𝑡−2𝑛, 𝑠𝑡, 𝑧𝑡, ¯𝑎𝑡:𝑡+2𝑛, 𝑎[0,𝑛))
⊲reward over [𝑡−2𝑛, 𝑡); next state
15:
append 𝜏𝑡−2𝑛to D
16:
˜𝑎[0,𝑛) ←𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛)
⊲update committed region for next step
17: Process 2: off-policy updates
18: for each trajectory appended by Process 1 do
19:
for 𝐺iterations do
20:
sample a batch 𝐵⊂D
21:
for each 𝜏=(𝑠, 𝑧, ˜𝑎[0,𝑛), 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛), 𝑎target, 𝑟, 𝑠′, 𝑧′, ¯𝑎′, ˜𝑎′
[0,𝑛)) ∈𝐵:
22:
draw M ⊂{1, . . . , 𝑁} at random
23:
𝑎′ ←𝜋𝜃−(𝑧′, 𝑠′, ¯𝑎′) + 𝜖
⊲𝜖clipped Gaussian
24:
𝑦←𝑟+ 𝛾2𝑛min𝑖∈M 𝑄𝜙−
𝑖
 𝑧′, 𝑠′, ˜𝑎′
[0,𝑛), 𝑎′
[𝑛,2𝑛)

25:
𝜙𝑖←𝜙𝑖−𝜂∇𝜙𝑖
Í
𝐵
 𝑄𝜙𝑖(𝑧, 𝑠, ˜𝑎[0,𝑛), 𝑎[𝑛,2𝑛)) −𝑦2 for all 𝑖
26:
if every 𝐷-th iteration then
27:
𝜃←𝜃−𝜂∇𝜃Lactor
⊲Eq. (5)
28:
𝜃−←𝜏𝜃+ (1−𝜏)𝜃−
29:
𝜙−
𝑖←𝜏𝜙𝑖+ (1−𝜏)𝜙−
𝑖
for all 𝑖
with 2 gripper commands and 2 head-joint commands. The attached actor and critic modify
only the 20 arm-action dimensions, leaving the torso and head actions unchanged. The control
frequency determines the frame rate at which the latency budget 𝑛in §3.1 is measured. Inference
is requested at 5 Hz, so a new action chunk arrives every 200 ms, corresponding to a latency
budget of 𝑛= 6 frames. Each chunk therefore contributes 6 frames to its execution region while
the subsequent chunk is being inferred. The base policy is trained to predict 𝐻= 32 frames
15


Dynamic Tossing:
Pen Capping:
Box Opening:
Grasp an object and toss it into a target container. 
Align the pen with its cap, secure the cap onto the pen, and release the cap.
Stabilize the box with the left hand while the right hand precisely aligns with the seam, cuts the tape, and opens the flaps.
Figure 5 | The three real-robot tasks evaluated in this work: dynamic object tossing into a target bin,
bimanual pen capping, and high-precision box opening by slitting the sealing tape and opening the flaps.
per chunk; thus, the committed and execution regions occupy 12 frames in total, while the
remaining 20 frames form the discarded region and are superseded by the subsequent chunk
before execution.
4.2. Task Specification
Dynamic tossing.
The robot is instructed to grasp a randomly placed object and toss it into
a randomly placed bin. Successful tossing requires the end effector to accumulate sufficient
velocity throughout the swing prior to release, rather than attaining the target velocity at a
single instant. This makes the task particularly sensitive to asynchronous execution: a pause at
a chunk boundary can bring the arm nearly to rest, leaving insufficient time for the remaining
swing to recover the required release velocity. Consequently, successful execution requires both
precise release timing and continuous motion across chunk boundaries. The bin opening is
approximately 7 × 12 cm, while the object is approximately 6 × 7 cm, making the task challenging
in both throwing speed and spatial accuracy.
16


Pen capping.
The robot is instructed to align the pen with its cap, secure the cap onto the pen,
and release the cap. Successful insertion requires the relative pose between the pen and cap to
fall within a clearance tolerance of approximately 5 mm. Errors beyond this tolerance cannot
be reliably corrected by applying additional force, as the cap tends to deflect rather than seat
properly. Since both arms are actively controlled, the insertion accuracy depends on their relative
pose rather than the motion of either arm alone. This makes the task particularly challenging for
the pretrained base policy: although it typically reaches the vicinity of the desired configuration,
small residual pose errors can prevent successful insertion. The attached network is therefore
responsible for correcting these residual errors and achieving the required insertion precision.
Box opening.
The task requires the robot to stabilize a package box with its left hand while
the right arm inserts a blade into the seam between the flaps and draws it along the seam to
cut the tape, after which the flaps are opened. The blade is approximately 1 mm wide, while
the seam is only 2–3 mm wide, requiring the insertion to locate the seam with approximately
millimeter-level precision. An insertion error can fail in either direction: the blade may cut into
the cardboard and damage the box, or it may miss the tape and leave the box sealed. Once the
blade is inserted, the seam guides its motion, substantially reducing the positional demands
during the subsequent cutting phase; the blade only needs to maintain sufficient depth to sever
the tape. Thus, the primary challenge lies in precise insertion, where the pretrained policy
reaches the vicinity of the desired configuration but remains insufficiently reliable.
4.3. Training Setup
Hyperparameters.
The attached actor and critic are implemented as 3-layer MLPs with 512
hidden units per layer. We use an update-to-data ratio of 𝐺= 5 and an actor update delay of
𝐷= 5, such that five gradient updates are performed for each newly collected trajectory, while
the actor and target networks are updated every fifth gradient step. The training batch size
is set to 256. We set the correction bound to 0.05, reflecting that the pretrained base policy is
already close to successful behavior and therefore requires only small corrective adjustments.
All remaining hyperparameters follow standard off-policy actor-critic practice and are kept fixed
across all tasks.
Reward labeling and human intervention.
The sparse reward defined in §3.4 is provided by
an operator through a gamepad or VR interface. An episode is terminated and assigned a binary
reward only when the operator judges the task to be complete; no intermediate rewards are
provided at any earlier timestep. Following each episode, the robot is returned to its initial pose
and the scene is reset for the next trial. Evaluation is based solely on task success rate. During
training, the operator intervenes as needed to maintain a balanced ratio of successful and failed
episodes. Human-intervened actions are incorporated through the raw action space, such that
they are stored and trained on in the same manner as policy-generated actions.
The two intervention modes introduced in §3.4 exhibit markedly different performance on
the dynamic tossing task, motivating the use of residual intervention. This difference is most
pronounced for bin positions farthest from the robot, which require higher release velocities and
are therefore more challenging. For these configurations, direct chunk-level teleoperation via
VR achieves a success rate of approximately 30%, compared with approximately 80% when the
operator provides a residual correction to the base policy’s action chunk. Direct teleoperation
17


Dynamic Tossing
Pen Capping
Box Opening
Figure 6 | Initial-state configurations used for evaluation. Ghosted overlays indicate the sampled configu-
rations. The inset illustrates the variation in the in-hand grasp pose, which is manually set during reset
and is not included in the enumerated configuration combinations.
requires the operator to control both the direction and magnitude of the release velocity while
simultaneously maintaining continuity when transitioning between human and policy control.
Residual intervention instead preserves the base policy’s velocity profile and requires the
operator only to compensate for its deviations. This substantially reduces the control burden
while better preserving motion continuity across intervention boundaries.
4.4. Evaluation
Protocol.
Each task is evaluated across a predefined set of initial-state configurations. Box
opening uses 10 box positions, dynamic tossing uses 18 configurations comprising 3 object
positions × 6 target-bin positions, and pen capping uses 12 configurations comprising 4 initial
hand states × 3 pen-cap positions. Figure 6 visualizes the configurations for each task, which
are identical to those used during online fine-tuning. Each configuration is evaluated once,
yielding 10, 18, and 12 episodes per checkpoint for box opening, dynamic tossing, and pen
capping, respectively. An episode terminates when the operator judges either that the task has
been successfully completed or that it can no longer be completed. An episode is counted as
successful only in the former case, and the success rate is computed as the number of successful
episodes divided by the total number of evaluation episodes.
Comparison.
Each task is evaluated at four points throughout the online RL process. The first
is the frozen base policy 𝜋0.5 [41], pretrained on the task and deployed with its parameters fixed,
without the attached network in the control loop. This baseline represents the performance
attainable through supervised pretraining alone and serves as the zero point on the horizontal
axis of the learning curves shown in Figure 7. Supervised pretraining uses 1,500 teleoperated
demonstrations for box opening and pen capping, and 500 for dynamic tossing. The latter
requires fewer demonstrations because it is substantially more difficult to collect: across all
bin positions, teleoperation succeeds on only approximately 50% of attempts, as human oper-
ators face the same challenge of maintaining a continuous swing. Online RL starts from the
corresponding pretrained policy. We first collect 50 rollout episodes under the frozen base
policy alone to seed the replay buffer. The attached actor and critic are then introduced into
the loop, and subsequent rollout episodes are collected under the online RL procedure. The
remaining three evaluation points are checkpoints from this same run, taken after 150, 200, and
250 rollout episodes. All four checkpoints are evaluated on the same hardware using the same
asynchronous inference loop and latency budget. Thus, the only variable across evaluation
18


0
150
200
250
rollout episodes collected
0
20
40
60
80
100
success rate (%)
39
72
83
94
8
67
75
83
30
20
40
90
Dynamic tossing
Pen capping
Box opening
Figure 7 | Success rate versus online interaction episodes, with one curve per task. The zero marker
denotes the frozen base policy, with its success rate extended as a dashed line for reference. Each point
reports success over 𝑁evaluation episodes at the corresponding checkpoint as specified in §4. The three
nonzero checkpoints come from a single RL run per task; lines are connected for visualization only.
points is the amount of online fine-tuning applied to the attached network.
4.5. Results
Figure 7 and Table 1 report the success rates of all three tasks as a function of the number of
rollout episodes collected during online RL. After 250 episodes, all three tasks substantially
outperform the frozen base policy: dynamic tossing improves from 39% to 94%, pen capping
from 8% to 83%, and box opening from 30% to 90%. The following paragraphs examine what
the frozen base policy fails to capture on each task, how much of this gap is recovered through
online fine-tuning, and the failure modes that remain.
Failure modes of the base policy.
Across all three tasks, failures of the frozen base policy are
systematic rather than random, primarily arising from insufficient adaptation to variations in
object or target poses. In pen capping, the policy produces similar motion trajectories across
different cap positions and fails to adequately adjust to the varying cap poses, resulting in only
an 8% success rate. In box opening, the blade exhibits a consistent leftward bias, causing it to
pierce the cardboard rather than enter the tape seam. In dynamic tossing, the policy fails to
appropriately modulate the release velocity with target distance: it tends to overshoot nearby
bins and undershoot distant ones, while also exhibiting systematic left-right deviations for
targets on opposite sides.
What online RL remedies.
The attached network progressively corrects the systematic offsets
of the frozen base policy, with the final checkpoint substantially improving performance across
all three tasks, although the learning dynamics vary by task. Dynamic tossing and pen capping
improve monotonically across checkpoints, with the largest gains occurring within the first
19


Task
Number of Rollout Episodes
Success Rate
Dynamic Tossing
0 (base policy)
39%
150
72%
200
83%
250
94%
Pen Capping
0 (base policy)
8%
150
67%
200
75%
250
83%
Box Opening
0 (base policy)
30%
150
20%
200
40%
250
90%
Table 1 | Success rate at each checkpoint, with the cumulative number of rollout episodes collected before
evaluation. Each success rate is computed from one episode per initial-state configuration under the
evaluation protocol specified in §4.4.
150 episodes. For pen capping in particular, the success rate increases from 8% to 67% during
this initial phase, indicating that the dominant systematic offset is largely corrected early, after
which performance is primarily limited by residual variation around the corrected trajectory.
Box opening exhibits a different learning trajectory: performance initially drops to 20% after 150
episodes, falling below the frozen base policy, before recovering to 40% and ultimately reaching
90%. This transient degradation likely reflects the exploration required for the attached network
to discover effective corrections while adapting to the task.
Closing the last millimeter.
Figure 8 shows representative failures on each task, at the final
checkpoint (250 episodes) and under the frozen base policy for comparison. Comparing the
two rows of Figure 8 shows the failures moving closer to success: the base policy misses in a
consistent direction and by a visible margin, whereas what remains after RL is a small spread
around the correct pose. On dynamic tossing, the object lands closer to the bin and breaks the
base policy’s pattern of fixed bias; on box opening, the blade’s deviation from the seam is much
smaller, with left-right deviations of 1–2 mm around the correct position; on pen capping, the
axial misalignment between cap and barrel is likewise much smaller, a small spread around
the correct pose. These deviation magnitudes are precisely what makes these tasks challenging:
success is not about reaching the target region but closing the last few millimeters, and an error
small enough to be barely distinguishable in the image is sufficient to fail the episode.
5. Conclusion, Limitations and Future Work
This work presents SmoothRL, a framework for fine-tuning pretrained robot policies with online
RL under asynchronous inference, improving success on fine-grained real-robot tasks while
preserving real-time responsiveness. Asynchrony breaks the correspondence between the action
optimized by the value gradient and the action actually executed by the environment. Our chunk
role partitioning and gradient truncation explicitly restore this correspondence by restricting
policy updates to the executed region. Operating in the raw action space further enables direct
20


RL
VLA
Dynamic Tossing
Pen Capping
Box Opening
Figure 8 | Representative failures on dynamic tossing, pen capping, and box opening. Columns denote
tasks; top and bottom rows show failures of the RL policy and frozen base policy, respectively. RL-tuned
failures are near misses, while the base policy exhibits larger, systematic deviations.
state augmentation for concurrent execution and allows human intervention to be incorporated
naturally as training data.
Limitations
The proposed online RL framework with asynchronous inference is general, yet the current
instantiation has two known limitations:
1. Inference latency constraint. The proposed framework operates under a fixed inference
frequency, requiring each chunk-level inference to complete within a predefined latency
budget. When temporal fluctuations in inference latency cause the actual computation
time to exceed this budget, scheduled chunk handover cannot be guaranteed. The resultant
timing misalignment destabilizes the asynchronous execution loop.
2. Output expressiveness bounded by the base policy. The expressive capacity of the RL
module is constrained by the base policy in two key aspects. First, the conditional features
used for RL optimization are derived from the internal representations of the VLA model,
so the perceptual capability of the RL branch is upper-bounded by the information richness
of VLA embeddings. Second, in the current implementation, the RL module produces
only bounded residual corrections upon the reference actions provided by the base policy.
The correction magnitude is confined within a fixed local neighborhood, whose radius
balances the effective correction range and the strength of trust-region regularization.
When the base policy exhibits systematic biases on target-domain data, such local residual
corrections lack sufficient expressiveness to rectify erroneous policy behaviors.
21


Future Work
Three broader directions emerge from this study. First, the proposed framework may extend
beyond the particular policy parameterization considered here. Since §3.3 constrains only
where the value gradient is applied, the same principle could accommodate a wider class
of offline-to-online learning algorithms and substantially different policy architectures. In
particular, the value gradient need not be restricted to a small attached network; it could
propagate through the parameters of an entire generative policy, as in QAM [55], whose adjoint
terminal condition ∇𝑎𝑄over the generated chunk provides a natural mechanism for expressing
the truncation induced by asynchronous execution. Such formulations, however, would need
to treat the committed prefix explicitly: preserving previously issued actions becomes a prefix-
constrained generation problem rather than an output-space overwrite. This perspective points
toward a more general formulation of online policy optimization under partially committed
generation. Second, the interaction between policy learning and action blending warrants
further investigation. While the framework rules out an external mixing operator, it does not
preclude incorporating the mixture directly into the learning objective. Doing so would allow the
critic to evaluate the actions that are ultimately executed, potentially providing a more faithful
training signal under asynchronous deployment. This comes at the cost of a broader temporal
dependency in the objective, additional continuity constraints around the blending operator, and
an additional actor forward pass for each contributing chunk. More fundamentally, the blending
weight typically decays toward the junction between chunks, precisely where continuity is
most critical, suggesting a potentially unfavorable trade-off between execution smoothness
and the strength of the learning signal. Understanding this trade-off could lead to principled
formulations that jointly optimize policy improvement and temporal consistency. Third, scaling
the evaluation to substantially broader and more diverse task distributions is essential for
characterizing the fundamental expressiveness limits of the proposed adaptation mechanism.
In particular, systematically increasing the distributional shift from the pretrained base policy
could reveal when local correction around the reference action ceases to be sufficient, and
whether this limitation is best addressed through a more expressive adapter, a fully generative
policy update, or a mechanism that can progressively relax the reference constraint. Such
experiments would help distinguish limitations arising from the learning algorithm itself from
those imposed by the chosen policy parameterization.
6. Contributions
• Contributors: Guang Gao∗, Yuxuan Nong∗, Baifu Huang
• Project Lead: Jianan Wang
∗Equal contribution.
22


References
[1] Kevin Black et al. Real-Time Execution of Action Chunking Flow Policies. arXiv:2506.07339,
2025.
[2] Kevin Black et al. Training-Time Action Conditioning for Efficient Real-Time Chunking.
arXiv:2512.05964, 2025.
[3] Yufeng Liu et al. Learning Native Continuation for Action Chunking Flow Policies.
arXiv:2602.12978, 2026.
[4] Dongyang Liu et al. Action-Prior Denoising for Smooth Real-Time Chunking.
arXiv:2605.25537, 2026.
[5] Cheng Chi et al. Diffusion Policy: Visuomotor Policy Learning via Action Diffusion.
arXiv:2303.04137, 2023.
[6] Tony Z. Zhao et al. Learning Fine-Grained Bimanual Manipulation with Low-Cost Hard-
ware. arXiv:2304.13705, 2023.
[7] Perry Dong et al. EXPO-FT: Sample-Efficient Reinforcement Learning Finetuning for Vision-
Language-Action Models. arXiv:2605.25477, 2026.
[8] Chenyu Yang et al. SERNF: Sample-Efficient Real-World Dexterous Policy Fine-Tuning via
Action-Chunked Critics and Normalizing Flows. arXiv:2602.09580, 2026.
[9] Charles Xu et al. RL Token: Bootstrapping Online RL with Vision-Language-Action Models.
arXiv:2604.23073, 2026.
[10] Dongchi Huang et al. CO-RFT: Efficient Fine-Tuning of Vision-Language-Action Models
through Chunked Offline Reinforcement Learning. arXiv:2508.02219, 2025.
[11] Wenli Xiao et al. Self-Improving Vision-Language-Action Models with Data Generation via
Residual RL. arXiv:2511.00091, 2025.
[12] Lars Ankile et al. Residual Off-Policy RL for Finetuning Behavior Cloning Policies.
arXiv:2509.19301, 2025.
[13] Guozheng Ma et al. What Makes Value Learning Efficient in Residual Reinforcement
Learning? arXiv:2602.10539, 2026.
[14] Qiyang Li et al. Decoupled Q-Chunking. arXiv:2512.10926, 2025.
[15] Guanxing Lu et al. VLA-RL: Towards Masterful and General Robotic Manipulation with
Scalable Reinforcement Learning. arXiv:2505.18719, 2025.
[16] Haozhan Li et al. SimpleVLA-RL: Scaling VLA Training via Reinforcement Learning.
arXiv:2509.09674, 2025.
[17] Yanjiang Guo et al. Improving Vision-Language-Action Model with Online Reinforcement
Learning. arXiv:2501.16664, 2025.
[18] Si-Cheng Wang et al. VLA Model Post-Training via Action-Chunked PPO and Self Behavior
Cloning. arXiv:2509.25718, 2025.
23


[19] Kang Chen et al. 𝜋RL: Online RL Fine-tuning for Flow-based Vision-Language-Action
Models. arXiv:2510.25889, 2025.
[20] Siting Wang et al. 𝜋-StepNFT: Wider Space Needs Finer Steps in Online RL for Flow-based
VLAs. arXiv:2603.02083, 2026.
[21] Allen Z. Ren et al. Diffusion Policy Policy Optimization. arXiv:2409.00588, 2024.
[22] Tonghe Zhang et al. ReinFlow: Fine-tuning Flow Matching Policy with Online Reinforce-
ment Learning. arXiv:2505.22094, 2025.
[23] Seohong Park et al. Flow Q-Learning. arXiv:2502.02538, 2025.
[24] Kun Lei et al. RL-100: Performant Robotic Manipulation with Real-World Reinforcement
Learning. arXiv:2510.14830, 2025.
[25] Yuhui Chen et al. ConRFT: A Reinforced Fine-tuning Method for VLA Models via Consis-
tency Policy. arXiv:2502.05450, 2025.
[26] Yi Wang et al. Learning While Deploying: Fleet-Scale Reinforcement Learning for Generalist
Robot Policies. arXiv:2605.00416, 2026.
[27] Perry Dong et al. EXPO: Stable Reinforcement Learning with Expressive Policies.
arXiv:2507.07986, 2025.
[28] Jianlan Luo et al. Precise and Dexterous Robotic Manipulation via Human-in-the-Loop
Reinforcement Learning. arXiv:2410.21845, 2024.
[29] Checheng Yu et al. 𝜒0: Resource-Aware Robust Manipulation via Taming Distributional
Inconsistencies. arXiv:2602.09021, 2026.
[30] Physical Intelligence. 𝜋∗
0.6: a VLA That Learns From Experience. arXiv:2511.14759, 2025.
[31] ByteDance Seed. GR-RL: Going Dexterous and Precise for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipu-
lation. arXiv:2512.01801, 2025.
[32] Andrew Wagenmaker et al. Steering Your Diffusion Policy with Latent Space Reinforcement
Learning. arXiv:2506.15799, 2025.
[33] Qiyang Li et al. Reinforcement Learning with Action Chunking. arXiv:2507.07969, 2025.
[34] Ge Li et al. TOP-ERL: Transformer-based Off-Policy Episodic Reinforcement Learning.
arXiv:2410.09536, 2024.
[35] Ted Xiao et al. Thinking While Moving: Deep Reinforcement Learning with Concurrent
Control. arXiv:2004.06089, 2020.
[36] Ayoub Agouzoul. Understanding Asynchronous Inference Methods for Vision-Language-
Action Models. arXiv:2605.08168, 2026.
[37] Jiaming Tang et al. VLASH: Real-Time VLAs via Future-State-Aware Asynchronous Infer-
ence. arXiv:2512.01031, 2025.
[38] Astribot Team. Asynchronous Fast-Slow Vision-Language-Action Policies for Whole-Body
Robotic Manipulation. arXiv:2512.20188, 2025.
24


[39] Kohei Sendai et al. Leave No Observation Behind: Real-time Correction for VLA Action
Chunks. arXiv:2509.23224, 2025.
[40] Physical Intelligence. 𝜋0: A Vision-Language-Action Flow Model for General Robot Control.
arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[41] Physical Intelligence. 𝜋0.5: a Vision-Language-Action Model with Open-World Generaliza-
tion. arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.
[42] Songming Liu et al. RDT-1B: a Diffusion Foundation Model for Bimanual Manipulation.
arXiv:2410.07864, 2024.
[43] Yue Su et al. World Guidance: World Modeling in Condition Space for Action Generation.
arXiv:2602.22010, 2026.
[44] Lin Li et al. Causal World Modeling for Robot Control. arXiv:2601.21998, 2026.
[45] BeingBeyond Team. Being-H0.7: A Latent World-Action Model from Egocentric Videos.
arXiv:2605.00078, 2026.
[46] Astribot Team. Towards Predictive, Aligned, and Scalable Robot Learning. arXiv:2607.11270,
2026.
[47] NVIDIA. GR00T N1: An Open Foundation Model for Generalist Humanoid Robots.
arXiv:2503.14734, 2025.
[48] Tianyuan Yuan et al. Fast-WAM: Do World Action Models Need Test-time Future Imagina-
tion? arXiv:2603.16666, 2026.
[49] Moo Jin Kim et al. Cosmos Policy: Fine-Tuning Video Models for Visuomotor Control and
Planning. arXiv:2601.16163, 2026.
[50] Xue Bin Peng et al. Advantage-Weighted Regression: Simple and Scalable Off-Policy
Reinforcement Learning. arXiv:1910.00177, 2019.
[51] Kevin Frans et al. Diffusion Guidance Is a Controllable Policy Improvement Operator.
arXiv:2505.23458, 2025.
[52] Chenxiao Gao et al. FlowRL: A Taxonomy and Modular Framework for Reinforcement
Learning with Diffusion Policies. arXiv:2603.27450, 2026.
[53] Mitsuhiko Nakamoto et al. Steering Your Generalists: Improving Robotic Foundation
Models via Value Guidance. arXiv:2410.13816, 2024.
[54] Jacky Kwok et al. RoboMonkey: Scaling Test-Time Sampling and Verification for Vision-
Language-Action Models. arXiv:2506.17811, 2025.
[55] Qiyang Li, Sergey Levine. Q-learning with Adjoint Matching. arXiv:2601.14234, 2026.
[56] Xinyue Chen et al. Randomized Ensembled Double Q-Learning: Learning Fast Without a
Model. arXiv:2101.05982, 2021.
[57] Jimmy Lei Ba et al. Layer Normalization. arXiv:1607.06450, 2016.
[58] Scott Fujimoto et al. Addressing Function Approximation Error in Actor-Critic Methods.
arXiv:1802.09477, 2018.
25


[59] Scott Fujimoto, Shixiang Shane Gu. A Minimalist Approach to Offline Reinforcement
Learning. arXiv:2106.06860, 2021.
[60] Tuomas Haarnoja et al. Soft Actor-Critic: Off-Policy Maximum Entropy Deep Reinforcement
Learning with a Stochastic Actor. arXiv:1801.01290, 2018.
26
