LIBERO-Agent: Evaluating General-Purpose Agents for
Direct Embodied Manipulation
Zĳie Diao1, Yitong Chen1,2, Sicheng Xie1,2, Tianyi Lu1,2, Wujian Peng1,2,
Guojin Zhong1, Houze Xu1, Ziyi Ye1, Zuxuan Wu1,2, Yu-Gang Jiang1
1Institute of Trustworthy Embodied AI, Fudan University
2Shanghai Innovation Institute
Abstract
General-purpose agents can plan, use tools, and revise their behavior from feedback, but it remains
unclear whether these capabilities transfer from digital environments to embodied manipulation. To
investigate this question, we introduce LIBERO-Agent, an agent-native benchmark for evaluating
these agents in robot manipulation tasks. Rather than asking agents to submit task-level Python
control programs or operate through high-level robot skills, LIBERO-Agent provides an interactive
robotic environment where agents can select which observations to inspect, process them with their
own tools, and issue native action commands. LIBERO-Agent integrates 200 tasks into a common
interaction framework and provides a 30-task primary suite that separates perception, short-horizon
execution, and long-horizon composition. Results reveal a pronounced reliability gap: while agents
perform well on perception and easy short-horizon tasks, their performance degrades substantially on
hard short-horizon and long-horizon tasks. Richer observations improve short-horizon manipulation,
while demonstration benefits depend on the agent and format. Among these agents, GPT-6 Astra
achieves the strongest overall performance. Further analysis shows its major advantage lies in
mechanism interaction, especially when sustained physical contact is needed, while its remaining
failures stem from cross-stage interference and geometric errors.
Code: https://github.com/dzj441/Libero-Agent
1
Introduction
Large language models have evolved from conversational systems [25] into general-purpose agents that
use tools and carry out complex tasks. Across mathematical reasoning [6], code generation [11, 13], web
browsing [14, 36], and computer use [26, 30], agents can plan toward a goal, revise their plans from feedback,
and keep using tools over long interactions. These advances call for more demanding evaluation settings that
test whether agents can autonomously organize perception, reasoning, and action throughout an interactive
task.
Embodied robot manipulation [4, 5, 12, 17] is a natural setting for such evaluation. An agent must ground
instruction-relevant objects in the scene and decide further actions from visual and physical feedback. It must
also handle potential occlusion and execution errors while tracking a changing task state under a time budget.
Simulation makes these interactions reproducible and scalable. However, existing manipulation benchmarks
often do not expose all of these choices to the evaluated agent: observations may be preselected, or physical
1
arXiv:2609.39507v1  [cs.RO]  30 Sep 2026


1
2
Agent-native interaction
Benchmark task suite
200 integrated tasks across three regimes.
Perception
Identify targets
with simple control
Short-horizon
Continuous
robot control
Long-horizon
Multi-stage
composition
Marked object
Upright marker
Middle condiment
Push to target
Open microwave
Insert tube
Pour and put away
Find & place butter
Seesaw retrieval
3
Key findings
Best: GPT-6 Astra
Score: 45.0 / 100
20
60
100
Target identification
Perception
execution
Short-horizon
Easy
Long-horizon
Easy
Long-horizon
Hard
Short-horizon
Hard
Richer observations
improve manipulation.
Demonstration gains vary
by agent and format.
Compared agents
GPT-6 Astra
Claude Opus 5
Claude Fable 5.1
Qwen3.8-Max
GPT-5.6 Sol
Kimi K3
DeepSeek V4.1
Flash
Available observations
Head RGBWrist RGB
Depth
Joint angles
q₁ … q₇
Joints
Agent selects inputs
General-Purpose Agent
Simulated Environment
New
observations
Primary suite: 30 tasks · 10 per regime
Native action
[Δx, Δy, Δz, Rx, Ry, Rz, g]
Strong perception;
long-horizon control is difficult.
Selected inputs
RGB
Depth
Autonomous reasoning
1.  Inspect images
2.  Estimate pose
3.  Plan action
Figure 1 Overview of LIBERO-Agent: agent-native interaction, benchmark task suite, and key findings.
execution may be abstracted behind benchmark-defined task-level action commands. When adapted to
general-purpose agents, such scaffolding can decide what information the agent receives or how actions are
composed, making it difficult to determine which embodied capabilities come from the agent itself rather
than from the benchmark interface. Moreover, existing benchmarks are rarely structured to diagnose agent
capabilities across perception, short-horizon execution, and long-horizon composition, making it difficult to
localize where failures arise.
We define agent-native embodied evaluation as a setting that makes these choices part of the agent’s
responsibility: the benchmark specifies the available observations, native robot-control interface, and resource
budgets, while leaving observation selection and processing, task decomposition, and action composition to
the agent. To support this setting, we adapt LIBERO [17], a widely used simulation benchmark for robot
manipulation, through a minimal interface that exposes episode control and bounded sequences of native
end-effector commands. Agents independently choose which available observations to inspect, process them
using their own tools, and compose actions without predefined task-level primitives. All interactions are
subject to fixed action and time budgets.
Leveraging LIBERO’s compatibility with related manipulation environments, we integrate representative
tasks from several benchmarks into a common framework comprising 200 tasks. From this collection, we
select 30 representative tasks as our primary evaluation benchmark and separate them into three aspects
of embodied competence: perception, short-horizon manipulation, and long-horizon manipulation. The
perception tasks focus primarily on target identification and therefore use only deliberately simple actions.
They cover diverse perceptual signals involving object identity, appearance, state, spatial relations, and
physical properties. The short-horizon tasks minimize perceptual ambiguity and long-term planning demands
to focus on manipulation execution. Example tasks include pick-and-place, pushing, button pressing, knob
rotation, and articulated-fixture manipulation. The long-horizon tasks compose these abilities across multiple
stages, adding requirements for instruction decomposition, scene exploration, cross-stage constraints, and
recovery from intermediate failures.
Using this benchmark, we compare seven general-purpose agents under a common protocol and study
how different observation inputs and demonstration context affect manipulation. GPT-6 Astra achieves the
highest Performance Score of 45.0/100. It succeeds on all perception and easy short-horizon tasks, but drops
to 40% on hard short-horizon manipulation and 22% stable stage completion on hard long-horizon tasks.
2


Richer observations improve short-horizon manipulation across Astra, Opus, and Fable, while demonstration
benefits depend on both the agent and the representation format. Further analysis shows that Astra’s
advantage is strongest in mechanism interaction and is associated with sustained physical contact. Once local
execution improves, failure modes shift toward cross-stage interference and geometric errors.
Our contributions are threefold:
• An agent-native embodied evaluation protocol.
We introduce a minimal interface that leaves
observation selection, information processing, task decomposition, and native action composition to the
agent.
• A capability-factorized manipulation benchmark. Our framework supports 200 tasks, with a 30-task
primary suite covering perception, short-horizon execution, and long-horizon composition.
• An empirical analysis of embodied agent capabilities. We compare seven agents and show that the
strongest agent’s advantage concentrates on mechanism interaction, where sustained contact is strongly
associated with success. Its remaining failures shift toward cross-stage interference and geometric
errors.
2
Related Work
2.1
Benchmarks for General-Purpose Agents
Recent benchmarks increasingly evaluate language models as interactive agents. General-purpose suites such
as AgentBench [18], AgentBoard [19], and GAIA [21] test multi-step reasoning and tool use across diverse
tasks. WebArena [36], VisualWebArena [14], and WorkArena [7] focus on evaluating agents under diverse
executable web environments. OSWorld [30] and AndroidWorld [26] extend this setup to desktop and mobile
computer use. SWE-bench [13] and AppWorld [29] test interaction with codebases and application APIs.
Together, these benchmarks emphasize multi-step interaction, feedback, and execution-based outcomes.
We bring this principle to robot manipulation, where benchmark-side perception and control abstractions can
themselves supply part of the capability being evaluated. LIBERO-Agent therefore targets an agent-native
setting that leaves observation processing, task decomposition, and native action composition to the agent
itself.
2.2
Embodied Manipulation Benchmarks
Robot manipulation benchmarks provide scalable and reproducible testbeds for evaluating policies across
diverse skills, scenes, and horizons [9, 12, 17, 20, 22, 34]. More recent benchmarks broaden capability
coverage toward language-conditioned reasoning [35], memory-dependent tasks [15], robust bimanual
generalization [4], and compositional long-horizon execution [33]. These benchmarks have substantially
advanced robot-policy evaluation, but typically assume a fixed observation interface. In parallel, foundation-
model approaches such as Code as Policies [16] and VoxPoser [10] generate programs or spatial value maps
executed through separate perception and control modules, separating high-level reasoning from low-level
physical execution.
Among existing works, EmbodiedBench [32] and CaP-X [8] are most closely related to our setting. Em-
bodiedBench evaluates multimodal language models on manipulation, but reduces the burden of physical
grounding and control through discretized actions and additional object-level perceptual information. CaP-X
evaluates coding agents by synthesizing programs over predefined robot perception and control primitives,
and its seven-task core benchmark primarily studies the effects of abstraction, interaction, and perceptual
grounding. LIBERO-Agent instead evaluates agents through direct embodied interaction: agents select and
process observations themselves and compose bounded native action sequences that act on the simulator. Our
30-task primary suite further factorizes evaluation into perception, short-horizon execution, and long-horizon
composition, enabling capability diagnosis under the same interaction protocol.
3


3
Benchmark
3.1
Agent–Simulation Interaction Protocol
We evaluate agents through iterative interaction with a simulated manipulation environment. At the
beginning of each episode, an agent receives the task instruction, the available observation modalities, and a
fixed interaction budget. The agent may inspect and process the available observations using its own tools,
maintain information from previous interactions, and decide what to inspect, how to process it, and what
actions to take.
Interaction proceeds by alternating between agent decisions and environment execution. At each interaction
step, the agent may submit a bounded sequence of robot actions. The simulation environment executes the
sequence and returns updated observations. The agent can then use these new observations to continue
working toward the task goal. No task-level manipulation primitives or privileged simulator state are exposed
to the agent. Thus, the benchmark fixes the interaction interface and budgets, while leaving observation
selection and action composition to the agent.
Episodes terminate when the agent explicitly finishes the task or exhausts the interaction or time budget.
Task success is determined independently by the simulation environment. For tasks with process-level
requirements, private evaluators additionally track relevant physical events, ordering constraints, and required
prior events.
3.2
Simulation Implementation
We implement the interaction protocol on LIBERO [17] through a minimal Model Context Protocol (MCP)
interface with three tools. start_episode initializes an episode, returns the task instruction and resource
budgets, and publishes the initial observation. osc_sequence executes a bounded sequence of robot actions
and publishes the resulting observation, while finish_episode terminates the episode and returns the
final evaluation outcome.
The simulation is built on MuJoCo [28] with a 7-DoF Franka Emika Panda robot. Each osc_sequence call ac-
cepts a bounded sequence of native OSC_POSE actions. An action is represented by [Δ𝑥, Δ𝑦, Δ𝑧, 𝑟𝑥, 𝑟𝑦, 𝑟𝑧, 𝑔] ∈
[−1, 1]7, corresponding to relative end-effector translation, rotation, and gripper control. Translation and
rotation components are scaled by 0.05 m and 0.5 rad, respectively, and the gripper command uses 𝑔= −1
for opening and 𝑔= +1 for closing. Submitted actions are executed by the environment’s native OSC_POSE
controller.
By default, observations available to agents include third-person and wrist-view RGB images, metric depth,
camera calibration, and robot state such as joint and end-effector states, velocities, commanded torques, and
force/torque measurements. These observations are published to an episode-local workspace, where agents
may inspect files, perform geometric computation, and store information across interactions. Each agent
rollout is subject to fixed action-submission and wall-clock budgets. A separate evaluation process maintains
private task checkers and event traces.
Leveraging LIBERO’s compatibility with related manipulation benchmarks, we integrate tasks and assets
from LiLo-VLA [33], RoboMemArena [15], and VLABench [35], resulting in a 200-task pool under a shared
interaction interface.
3.3
Task Design
From the 200-task pool supported by the simulation runtime, we select 30 representative tasks as the
primary evaluation suite. We organize them into three task groups: Perception-Focused Manipulation,
Short-Horizon Manipulation, and Long-Horizon Manipulation, with ten tasks in each group. Together,
they separate three questions: can the agent identify the right target, execute the intended physical interaction,
and compose these abilities across multiple stages? Short- and long-horizon tasks are further divided into
easy and hard subsets based on difficulty.
4


Perception-Focused Manipulation.
These tasks simplify physical interaction so that the main challenge lies in
identifying task-relevant information. The ten tasks cover object pose, spatial relations, color, texture, instance
markings, shape, semantic category, size, reflectance, and physical properties. Representative examples
include identifying an upright marker, an object between two others, a different object, and the heaviest
among visually identical objects. Perception is evaluated through embodied execution rather than question
answering: agents must act on their judgments under a simple control requirement.
Short-Horizon Manipulation.
These tasks specify both the relevant object and manipulation objective so
that the main question is whether a correct target and goal can be turned into a reliable physical state
change. We further divide them into easy and hard subsets according to execution difficulty: easy tasks
allow relatively direct interactions and broader tolerances, whereas hard tasks require tighter geometric
alignment, direction-sensitive motion, sustained contact, or more dexterous interaction. The easy subset
consists of pick-and-place, button pressing, opening and closing a drawer, and pouring. The hard subset
contains direction-sensitive pushing, opening a microwave, operating a stove control, precise tube insertion,
and wiping a spill.
Long-Horizon Manipulation.
These tasks compose the perception and manipulation abilities above across
multiple stages, while adding planning and task-state tracking. We divide them into easy and hard subsets
according to cross-stage difficulty: easy tasks mainly sequence familiar subgoals with limited cross-stage
dependence, whereas hard tasks require stronger goal inference, causal dependencies, persistent physical
constraints, or mechanism reasoning. Representative easy tasks include repeated pouring or transferring
multiple objects, while hard tasks include reconstructing a scene from a goal image and using a mechanism
such as a rotary latch or seesaw to complete the task. These tasks test whether agents can maintain a coherent
task state and satisfy constraints over extended execution.
4
Experiments
4.1
Experimental Setup
Agents and primary evaluation.
We evaluate seven general-purpose agents: GPT-6 Astra [23], GPT-5.6 Sol [24],
Claude Opus 5 [3], Claude Fable 5.1 [2], DeepSeek-V4.1-Flash [31], Kimi K3 [27], and Qwen3.8-Max [1]. Each
evaluated agent is a model–harness pair, with reasoning effort set to high where supported. Our primary
evaluation uses the 30-task suite in Section 3.3 with the full observation profile and no demonstrations. We
evaluate each task with three rollouts using the same task-specific initial state and simulator seed. Each
rollout has a 1,800-second wall-clock limit and a fixed action-submission budget. A single osc_sequence
submission may contain between 1 and 50 native OSC_POSE actions. Third-person and wrist-view RGB and
depth observations are rendered at 256 × 256 resolution.
Metrics.
We report stable performance across three rollouts. For perception and short-horizon tasks, let
𝑦𝑖,𝑟∈{0, 1} denote full-task success for task 𝑖in rollout 𝑟. For a long-horizon task 𝑖with 𝐾𝑖stages, let 𝑐𝑖,𝑟
denote the number of completed stages in rollout 𝑟. Stable success rate and stable stage completion over a
task set 𝒯are
SRstable(𝒯) = 100
|𝒯|
Õ
𝑖∈𝒯
3
Ö
𝑟=1
𝑦𝑖,𝑟,
SCstable(𝒯) = 100
|𝒯|
Õ
𝑖∈𝒯
min𝑟∈{1,2,3} 𝑐𝑖,𝑟
𝐾𝑖
,
(1)
respectively. Perception judgment accuracy (Judg. Acc.) follows the same stable criterion using correct
target identification instead of full-task success. Thus, SRstable requires full success in all three rollouts, while
SCstable preserves partial progress while requiring it to be reproducible. Tasks are equally weighted within
each subset. The 100-point overall Performance Score is
Score = 5𝐽+ 10𝑃+ 5𝑀easy + 10𝑀hard + 20𝐿easy + 50𝐿hard,
(2)
5


where 𝐽and 𝑃denote stable perception judgment and task success, 𝑀denotes stable short-horizon success,
and 𝐿denotes stable long-horizon stage completion, with all components normalized to [0, 1]. The weighting
emphasizes harder and longer-horizon tasks. Resource usage is averaged over all 90 primary episodes per
agent.
4.2
Main Results
Table 1 Stable performance on the primary 30-task suite. Metrics follow the stable criterion in Section 4.1. Judg. Acc.:
target-identification accuracy; SR: success rate; SC: stage completion; M: million tokens. Score denotes the 100-point
Performance Score. Bold marks the best task-performance result in each column.
Agent
Perception
Short-Horizon
Long-Horizon
Overall
Resource Usage
Judg. Acc. Task SR
Easy SR
Hard SR
Easy SC
Hard SC
Score
Avg. Time Avg. Tokens
GPT-6 Astra
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
40.0%
50.0%
22.0%
45.0
11.5 min
1.38M
GPT-5.6 Sol
90.0%
10.0%
40.0%
0.0%
16.7%
0.0%
10.8
22.0 min
3.44M
Claude Opus 5
100.0%
80.0%
60.0%
0.0%
16.7%
0.0%
19.3
22.0 min
5.49M
Claude Fable 5.1
90.0%
60.0%
40.0%
0.0%
16.7%
0.0%
15.8
22.4 min
3.01M
DeepSeek-V4.1-Flash
90.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
4.5
21.2 min
0.39M
Kimi K3
90.0%
10.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
5.5
19.0 min
3.22M
Qwen3.8-Max
90.0%
30.0%
20.0%
0.0%
10.0%
0.0%
10.5
23.9 min
4.80M
Correct identification does not ensure reliable physical execution.
Table 1 reveals a pronounced gap between
correct target identification and successful execution. GPT-5.6 Sol, DeepSeek V4.1 Flash, Kimi K3, and
Qwen3.8-Max all achieve 90% stable judgment accuracy, yet their perception-focused task success is only
10%, 0%, 10%, and 30%, respectively. The same weakness carries over to short-horizon manipulation: their
easy-task success rates are only 40%, 0%, 0%, and 20%, and none succeeds stably on any hard short-horizon
task. Thus, these agents often identify what to manipulate but fail to turn that decision into a reliable physical
state change.
The gap narrows but persists for Opus and Fable. Claude Opus 5 achieves 100% judgment accuracy but 80%
task success, while Claude Fable 5.1 reaches 90% and 60%, respectively. Their easy short-horizon success
also drops to 60% and 40%, and both score 0% on the hard subset. Only GPT-6 Astra achieves 100% on both
perception-focused metrics and easy short-horizon manipulation. Overall, target identification is therefore
already strong for most agents, while reliable physical execution remains much harder.
Performance degrades with interaction difficulty and task horizon.
Reliable execution on simpler tasks does not
necessarily extend to harder physical interactions. Astra falls from 100% success on easy short-horizon tasks
to 40% on the hard subset, while every other agent drops to 0%. The drop on hard short-horizon tasks shows
that tighter alignment, direction-sensitive motion, sustained contact, and mechanism interaction already pose
major challenges before multi-stage composition is introduced. Long-horizon tasks further widen this gap.
Astra retains 50.0% stable stage completion on the easy subset and 22.0% on the hard subset. Sol, Opus,
and Fable each reach only 16.7% on easy long-horizon tasks, Qwen reaches 10.0%, and DeepSeek and Kimi
make no stable progress. On the hard subset, every non-Astra agent scores 0%. These results suggest that
longer horizons compound the difficulty of manipulation by requiring reliable execution across successive
stages. Even Astra, which consistently solves the simpler tasks, struggles to sustain this reliability over longer
sequences.
Overall performance varies widely and is not explained by greater resource use.
Overall, Astra achieves the highest
Performance Score at 45.0/100, followed by Opus at 19.3 and Fable at 15.8. Sol and Qwen obtain similar scores
of 10.8 and 10.5, respectively, while Kimi and DeepSeek score 5.5 and 4.5. Astra’s performance advantage
is accompanied by shorter episodes and lower token consumption than most other agents. It averages 11.5
minutes per episode, compared with 19.0–23.9 minutes for the other agents. Its average token usage is only
6


1.38M, below most other agents. Taken together, Astra’s higher success rates and lower resource use suggest
that it completes tasks more efficiently, with less need for prolonged interaction or additional tokens.
4.3
Observation and Demonstration Context
Table 2 Observation ablation: stable short horizon success
rates (%). Level 1: RGB + joint angles + end-effector pose;
Level 2: Level 1 + dynamic proprioception; Level 3: Level 2
+ calibrated depth. Bold marks the best nonzero result per
agent and column.
Table 3 Demonstration ablation: stable long horizon stage
completion (%). None: no demo; Video: successful execu-
tion (MP4); Traj.: actions from another successful episode
of the same task. Bold marks the best nonzero result per
agent and column.
Agent
Observation
Easy
Hard
Overall
Astra
Level 1
40.0
20.0
30.0
Level 2
80.0
20.0
50.0
Level 3
100.0
40.0
70.0
Opus
Level 1
20.0
0.0
10.0
Level 2
20.0
0.0
10.0
Level 3
60.0
0.0
30.0
Fable
Level 1
0.0
0.0
0.0
Level 2
0.0
0.0
0.0
Level 3
40.0
0.0
20.0
Agent
Context
Easy
Hard
Overall
Astra
None
50.0
22.0
36.0
Video
93.3
39.0
66.2
Video + Traj.
90.0
26.0
58.0
Opus
None
16.7
0.0
8.3
Video
11.7
0.0
5.8
Video + Traj.
35.0
0.0
17.5
Fable
None
16.7
0.0
8.3
Video
30.0
5.0
17.5
Video + Traj.
30.8
5.0
17.9
Richer observations improve manipulation performance.
To assess how different observation modalities affect
manipulation success, we evaluate Astra, Opus, and Fable on the ten short-horizon tasks. We compare three
cumulative observation profiles. Level 1 (L1) provides RGB observations, joint angles, and end-effector pose;
Level 2 (L2) adds dynamic proprioception, including joint torques, end-effector velocity, and force/torque
measurements; and Level 3 (L3) further adds metric depth and camera intrinsics and extrinsics. The evaluation
follows the protocol in Section 4.1, with high reasoning effort and no demonstrations.
Table 2 shows that richer observations improve overall success, but the gains are mostly concentrated on
easier tasks. Adding dynamic proprioception raises Astra’s overall success from 30% to 50%, driven by an
increase from 40% to 80% on easy tasks, while Opus and Fable remain at 10% and 0%, respectively. Adding
calibrated depth then improves overall success by 20 percentage points for each agent, bringing Astra, Opus,
and Fable to 70%, 30%, and 20%, respectively. For Opus and Fable, these gains occur entirely on easy tasks,
where success rises from 20% to 60% and from 0% to 40%. Astra benefits on both subsets, improving from
80% to 100% on easy tasks and from 20% to 40% on hard tasks. We hypothesize that dynamic proprioception
helps agents assess the robot’s response to executed actions, while calibrated depth reduces uncertainty about
the spatial relationship between the gripper and target objects. These signals may therefore support more
accurate actions and corrections during manipulation.
Demonstration gains depend on the agent and format.
To examine how demonstration availability and format
affect long-horizon execution, we evaluate Astra, Opus, and Fable on the ten long-horizon tasks under three
conditions. None uses the same no-demonstration setting as the primary evaluation. Video additionally
provides an MP4 video of successful task execution. Video + Traj. further provides a successful action
trajectory recorded in a different episode of the same task. Direct replay of this trajectory does not solve the
evaluation episode, but the trajectory provides action-level cues about task dynamics. All conditions use full
observations and high reasoning effort. We report stable stage completion for the easy and hard subsets and
across all ten tasks.
Table 3 shows that video demonstrations improve long-horizon execution for Astra and Fable, whose overall
stable stage completion rises from 36.0% to 66.2% and from 8.3% to 17.5%, respectively. Opus, however,
shows no clear benefit from video alone. For Astra and Fable, video demonstrations yield larger gains on
7


easy tasks than on hard tasks. We hypothesize that videos clarify subgoal ordering and intermediate states,
helping agents plan and monitor execution. On harder tasks, however, difficult physical interaction may
remain the dominant bottleneck even with this guidance, limiting further gains from video demonstrations.
Adding action trajectories does not consistently produce further gains over video alone. Opus’s overall stable
stage completion increases from 5.8% to 17.5%. Astra instead declines from 66.2% to 58.0%, mainly on hard
tasks. Fable gains little beyond video alone. Since each reference trajectory comes from a different episode of
the same task, we hypothesize that it provides useful low-level control cues but may also encourage actions
that do not match the current episode. Overall, all three agents improve over the no-demonstration baseline
under at least one demonstration condition, but additional action-level information does not reliably yield
further improvements.
5
Diagnosing the Strongest Agent
5.1
Localizing Astra’s Long-Horizon Advantage
To understand where Astra’s advantage comes from, we decompose the five hard long-horizon tasks into 20
physical stages and manually annotate whether each stage is reached, whether it succeeds, and its failure
mode. We compare Astra with the other three highest-scoring agents under the same high-reasoning,
no-demonstration setting.
We further categorize stages by their physical interaction and failures by where they arise, as illustrated in
Figure 2. Object Manipulation moves or repositions a movable object, whereas Mechanism Interaction changes
the state of an articulated mechanism. For failed stages, Local Execution denotes failure of the current physical
operation itself, while Cross-stage Interference occurs when actions in one stage disturb, occlude, or undo a
physical state established by another stage. To isolate local physical competence, execution success rates are
computed after excluding failures attributed to cross-stage interference.
Stage type
Failure type
(a) Object
manipulation
On table
On stove
(b) Mechanism
interaction
Closed
Opened
(c) Local
execution
Placing
Toppled
(d) Cross-stage
interference
Prior state
Contact
State lost
Figure 2 Stage and failure taxonomy. (a–b) Stage types: Object Manipulation and Mechanism Interaction; (c–d) failure
types: Local Execution and Cross-stage Interference.
Table 4 Stage-level diagnosis on the hard long-horizon tasks. Reached and Success are computed over all stage opportunities.
Object Manipulation and Mechanism Interaction report execution success rates after excluding failures attributed to
cross-stage interference. Failure modes are percentages of reached-but-failed stages and may overlap.
Stage Progress (%)
Execution SR (%)
Failure Mode (%)
Agent
Reached
Success
Object Manipulation
Mechanism Interaction
Local Execution
Cross-stage Interference
GPT-6 Astra
65.0
36.7
66.7
94.1
23.5
52.9
GPT-5.6 Sol
43.3
13.3
66.7
22.2
61.1
27.8
Claude Opus 5
41.7
5.0
28.6
7.1
81.8
0.0
Claude Fable 5.1
26.7
6.7
20.0
37.5
83.3
0.0
Table 4 shows that Astra’s advantage appears at both task progression and physical execution. It reaches 65.0%
8


of all stages and successfully completes 36.7%, substantially exceeding the other agents on both measures. The
largest execution gap appears in mechanism interaction: Astra reaches a 94.1% execution success rate, while
the other agents range from 7.1% to 37.5%. By contrast, Astra and Sol attain the same 66.7% rate on object
manipulation. The failure annotations reinforce this distinction. Local execution accounts for 61.1–83.3% of
reached-stage failures for the weaker agents, but only 23.5% for Astra. These results therefore localize Astra’s
long-horizon advantage primarily to stronger mechanism-level physical execution.
5.2
Sustained Contact During Mechanism Interaction
We next examine what Astra does differently during mechanism interaction. We focus on opening operations
in which the gripper must remain physically engaged with a handle while the articulated mechanism moves.
We quantify this behavior using the sustained-contact ratio:
𝑁sustained =
𝑁exec
Õ
𝑡=1
1[ℓ𝑡≥5],
SCR = 𝑁sustained
𝑁exec
× 100%,
(3)
where ℓ𝑡is the length of the gripper–handle contact run containing control step 𝑡, with ℓ𝑡= 0 when no contact
occurs.
Figure 3 shows a substantial difference between Astra and the other agents. Astra reaches a mean SCR of
20.63%, whereas the other agents range from 4.23% to 7.17%. The same measure also tracks local opening
success. Among operations with zero SCR, none of 19 succeed. The success rate rises to 7/19 for SCR between
0 and 10%, to 10/15 for SCR between 10 and 25%, and to 11/11 when SCR exceeds 25%. Using the original
64 opening operations rather than the visualization bins, SCR has a Pearson correlation of 𝑟= 0.711 with
local opening success. Together, these results associate Astra’s higher opening success with more consistent
sustained physical engagement.
Astra
Sol
Opus
Fable
Agent
0
5
10
15
20
Mean SCR (%)
20.63%
n=24
4.23%
n=16
7.17%
n=9
6.25%
n=15
Sustained Contact by Agent
0
(0,10]
(10,25]
>25
SCR interval (%)
0
25
50
75
100
Opening success rate (%)
0/19
7/19
10/15
11/11
Pearson r = 0.711
Opening Success vs. Sustained Contact
(a)
(b)
Figure 3 Sustained contact during mechanism interaction. (a) Mean sustained-contact ratio (SCR) across agents for
entered opening operations. (b) Local opening success across SCR intervals. Error bars in (b) show 95% Wilson confidence
intervals. SCR intervals are used only for visualization. Pearson correlation is computed over the original 64 opening
operations.
5.3
Remaining Failures: Cross-stage Interference and Geometry
The preceding analyses show that Astra has largely reduced the local execution failures that dominate weaker
agents, particularly during mechanism interaction. Its remaining errors therefore show a different failure
pattern: successfully completing one physical interaction does not guarantee that the resulting scene remains
suitable for subsequent stages.
Figure 4 illustrates two recurring forms of failure. First, actions interfere across stages. A reasonable placement
9


can occlude or block a later interaction, while a subsequent motion can disturb an object or mechanism whose
state was already correct. Second, Astra can select the correct object and operation while realizing it with
invalid geometry. For example, it may attempt tube insertion with the tube in the wrong orientation.
These failures indicate that stronger local manipulation alone is not sufficient for reliable long-horizon control.
Astra can execute individual physical interactions effectively, yet still struggles to preserve task-relevant state
across stages and to realize actions with task-valid geometry.
Cross-stage interference
Orientation error
(a) Future access
Knob visible Pan release
Occluded
(b) Prior state
Moka upright
Arm contact Moka toppled
(c) Object orientation
Open end down Insertion attempt
Figure 4 Residual failure modes of Astra. (a) A placement blocks access required by a later stage. (b) A subsequent
action disturbs previously established state. (c) The intended operation is executed with an invalid object orientation.
6
Conclusion
We introduced LIBERO-Agent, a benchmark for evaluating general-purpose agents through autonomous
observation selection and native robot control. Its perception-focused, short-horizon, and long-horizon
tasks provide complementary tests of embodied competence. GPT-6 Astra achieves the highest Performance
Score of 45.0/100 among seven evaluated agents. It excels at target identification and easy short-horizon
manipulation, but remains less reliable on harder short-horizon and long-horizon tasks. More broadly, our
benchmark reveals a common limitation across agents: correct target identification does not consistently
translate into reliable physical execution. Our ablations show that richer observations improve manipulation,
while demonstration benefits vary by agent and format. Further analysis shows that Astra’s advantage is
strongest in mechanism interaction and is associated with sustained physical contact. As local execution
improves, its remaining failures shift toward cross-stage interference and geometric errors, highlighting
anticipation of downstream consequences and preservation of previously achieved states as key remaining
challenges.
10


References
[1] Alibaba Cloud. Alibaba unveils Qwen3.8-Max: Its largest and most capable flagship model to date. https:
//www.alibabacloud.com/en/press-room/alibaba-unveils-qwen3-8-max, 2026. Accessed September
24, 2026.
[2] Anthropic. Introducing Claude Fable 5.1 and Claude Mythos 5.1. https://www.anthropic.com/claude-fab
le-and-mythos-5-1, 2026. Accessed September 24, 2026.
[3] Anthropic. Introducing Claude Opus 5. https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-opus-5, 2026. Accessed
September 24, 2026.
[4] Tianxing Chen, Zanxin Chen, Baĳun Chen, Zĳian Cai, Yibin Liu, Zixuan Li, Qiwei Liang, Xianliang Lin, Yiheng Ge,
Zhenyu Gu, et al. Robotwin 2.0: A scalable data generator and benchmark with strong domain randomization for
robust bimanual robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.18088, 2025.
[5] Tianxing Chen, Yue Chen, Zixuan Li, Junyuan Tang, Kailun Su, Haoran Lu, Weĳie Wan, Baĳun Chen, Songling Liu,
Haowen Yan, et al. Robodojo: A unified sim-and-real benchmark for comprehensive evaluation of generalist robot
manipulation policies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.04434, 2026.
[6] Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser, Matthias Plappert,
Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, et al. Training verifiers to solve math word problems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2110.14168, 2021.
[7] Alexandre Drouin, Maxime Gasse, Massimo Caccia, Issam H Laradji, Manuel Del Verme, Tom Marty, Léo Boisvert,
Megh Thakkar, Quentin Cappart, David Vazquez, et al. Workarena: How capable are web agents at solving common
knowledge work tasks? arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.07718, 2024.
[8] Letian Fu, Justin Yu, Karim El-Refai, Ethan Kou, Haoru Xue, Huang Huang, Wenli Xiao, Guanzhi Wang, Dantong
Niu, Fei-Fei Li, et al. Cap-x: A framework for benchmarking and improving coding agents for robot manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.22435, 2026.
[9] Jiayuan Gu, Fanbo Xiang, Xuanlin Li, Zhan Ling, Xiqiang Liu, Tongzhou Mu, Yihe Tang, Stone Tao, Xinyue
Wei, Yunchao Yao, et al. Maniskill2: A unified benchmark for generalizable manipulation skills. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.04659, 2023.
[10] Wenlong Huang, Chen Wang, Ruohan Zhang, Yunzhu Li, Jiajun Wu, and Li Fei-Fei. Voxposer: Composable 3d value
maps for robotic manipulation with language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.05973, 2023.
[11] Wenqi Huang, Charley Lee, Leonard Tng, and Serena Ge. Deepswe: Measuring frontier coding agents on original,
long-horizon engineering tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.07946, 2026.
[12] Stephen James, Zicong Ma, David Rovick Arrojo, and Andrew J Davison. Rlbench: The robot learning benchmark &
learning environment. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 5(2):3019–3026, 2020.
[13] Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik Narasimhan.
Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues?
In International Conference on Learning
Representations, volume 2024, pages 54107–54157, 2024.
[14] Jing Yu Koh, Robert Lo, Lawrence Jang, Vikram Duvvur, Ming Lim, Po-Yu Huang, Graham Neubig, Shuyan Zhou,
Russ Salakhutdinov, and Daniel Fried. Visualwebarena: Evaluating multimodal agents on realistic visual web
tasks. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 881–905, 2024.
[15] Huashuo Lei, Wenxuan Song, Huarui Zhang, Jieyuan Pei, Jiayi Chen, Haodong Yan, Han Zhao, Pengxiang Ding,
Zhipeng Zhang, Lida Huang, et al. Robomemarena: A comprehensive and challenging robotic memory benchmark.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.10921, 2026.
[16] Jacky Liang, Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Peng Xu, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Pete Florence, and Andy Zeng. Code
as policies: Language model programs for embodied control. In 2023 IEEE International conference on robotics and
automation (ICRA), pages 9493–9500. IEEE, 2023.
11


[17] Bo Liu, Yifeng Zhu, Chongkai Gao, Yihao Feng, Qiang Liu, Yuke Zhu, and Peter Stone. Libero: Benchmarking
knowledge transfer for lifelong robot learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:44776–44791,
2023.
[18] Xiao Liu, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Yifan Xu, Xuanyu Lei, Hanyu Lai, Yu Gu, Hangliang Ding, Kaiwen Men, Kejuan
Yang, et al. Agentbench: Evaluating llms as agents. In International Conference on Learning Representations,
volume 2024, pages 52989–53046, 2024.
[19] Chang Ma, Junlei Zhang, Zhihao Zhu, Cheng Yang, Yujiu Yang, Yaohui Jin, Zhenzhong Lan, Lingpeng Kong, and
Junxian He. Agentboard: An analytical evaluation board of multi-turn llm agents. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 37:74325–74362, 2024.
[20] Oier Mees, Lukas Hermann, Erick Rosete-Beas, and Wolfram Burgard. Calvin: A benchmark for language-conditioned
policy learning for long-horizon robot manipulation tasks. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 7(3):7327–7334,
2022.
[21] Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. Gaia: a benchmark for
general ai assistants. In International Conference on Learning Representations, volume 2024, pages 9025–9049, 2024.
[22] Soroush Nasiriany, Abhiram Maddukuri, Lance Zhang, Adeet Parikh, Aaron Lo, Abhishek Joshi, Ajay Mandlekar, and
Yuke Zhu. Robocasa: Large-scale simulation of everyday tasks for generalist robots. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.02523,
2024.
[23] OpenAI. GPT-6 Astra model. https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/models/gpt-6-astra, 2026.
Accessed September 24, 2026.
[24] OpenAI. GPT-5.6 Sol model. https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/models/gpt-5.6-sol, 2026.
Accessed September 24, 2026.
[25] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini
Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:27730–27744, 2022.
[26] Chris Rawles, Sarah Clinckemaillie, Yifan Chang, Jonathan Waltz, Gabrielle Lau, Marybeth Fair, Alice Li, William
Bishop, Wei Li, Folawiyo Campbell-Ajala, et al. Androidworld: A dynamic benchmarking environment for
autonomous agents. In International Conference on Learning Representations, volume 2025, pages 406–441, 2025.
[27] Kimi Team, Tongtong Bai, Yifan Bai, Yiping Bao, Jianfeng Cai, Xinyuan Cai, Peizhou Cao, Yuxuan Cao, Ziwei Chai,
Y Charles, et al. Kimi k3: Open frontier intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.24653, 2026.
[28] Emanuel Todorov, Tom Erez, and Yuval Tassa. Mujoco: A physics engine for model-based control. In 2012 IEEE/RSJ
international conference on intelligent robots and systems, pages 5026–5033. IEEE, 2012.
[29] Harsh Trivedi, Tushar Khot, Mareike Hartmann, Ruskin Manku, Vinty Dong, Edward Li, Shashank Gupta, Ashish
Sabharwal, and Niranjan Balasubramanian. Appworld: A controllable world of apps and people for benchmarking
interactive coding agents. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 16022–16076, 2024.
[30] Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh J Hua, Zhoujun Cheng,
Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, et al. Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for open-ended tasks in real computer
environments. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:52040–52094, 2024.
[31] Anyi Xu, B Li, Bangcai Lin, Bing Xue, BingCheng Xian, Bingzheng Xu, Bochao Wu, Bowei Zhang, Boyi Deng, CC Yu,
et al. Deepseek-v4. 1-flash: Pushing the limits of kv cache compression. arXiv preprint arXiv:2609.19969, 2026.
[32] Rui Yang, Hanyang Chen, Junyu Zhang, Mark Zhao, Cheng Qian, Kangrui Wang, Qineng Wang, Teja Venkat
Koripella, Marziyeh Movahedi, Manling Li, et al. Embodiedbench: Comprehensive benchmarking multi-modal
large language models for vision-driven embodied agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.09560, 2025.
[33] Yue Yang, Shuo Cheng, Yu Fang, Homanga Bharadhwaj, Mingyu Ding, Gedas Bertasius, and Daniel Szafir. Lilo-vla:
Compositional long-horizon manipulation via linked object-centric policies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.21531, 2026.
12


[34] Tianhe Yu, Deirdre Quillen, Zhanpeng He, Ryan Julian, Karol Hausman, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Meta-
world: A benchmark and evaluation for multi-task and meta reinforcement learning. In Conference on robot
learning, pages 1094–1100. PMLR, 2020.
[35] Shiduo Zhang, Zhe Xu, Peĳu Liu, Xiaopeng Yu, Yuan Li, Qinghui Gao, Zhaoye Fei, Zhangyue Yin, Zuxuan Wu,
Yu-Gang Jiang, et al. Vlabench: A large-scale benchmark for language-conditioned robotics manipulation with
long-horizon reasoning tasks. In 2025 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages
11142–11152. IEEE, 2025.
[36] Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Tianyue Ou, Yonatan
Bisk, Daniel Fried, et al. Webarena: A realistic web environment for building autonomous agents. In International
Conference on Learning Representations, volume 2024, pages 15585–15606, 2024.
[37] Yuke Zhu, Josiah Wong, Ajay Mandlekar, Roberto Martín-Martín, Abhishek Joshi, Kevin Lin, Abhiram Maddukuri,
Soroush Nasiriany, and Yifeng Zhu. robosuite: A modular simulation framework and benchmark for robot learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.12293, 2020.
13


A
Agent Harnesses
Table 5 lists the agent harness version used for each evaluated model. Versions are taken from the archived
run manifests and session metadata.
Table 5 Agent harnesses and versions used in our experiments.
Model
Agent harness
Version
GPT-6 Astra
Codex
0.154.0
GPT-5.6 Sol
Codex
0.154.0
Claude Opus 5
Claude Code
2.1.139
Claude Fable 5.1
Claude Code
2.1.139
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
DeepSeek Harness
0.1.5-rc.2
Kimi K3
Kimi Code
0.42.0
Qwen3.8-Max
Qwen Code
0.24.0
B
Task Suite and Evaluation Details
B.1
Task construction and primary evaluation suite
Our primary evaluation comprises 30 tasks: ten perception-focused tasks, ten short-horizon manipulation
tasks, and ten long-horizon tasks. Tables 6–8 enumerate their instructions, physical requirements, and scoring
units. The task collection combines LIBERO scenes and predicates [17], RoboMemArena task sequences [15],
LiLo-VLA task scenes [33], VLABench assets and mechanisms [35], and adapted manipulation mechanisms
in the shared MuJoCo/robosuite runtime [37]. Task adaptation specifies the scene, initial state, public
instruction, and evaluator together. The same observation and control interface is used across these sources.
The perception suite varies the information needed to select a target. Most tasks pair identification with
pick-and-place or pressing a paired button. T08 instead requires physical probing: its three mugs have the
same appearance, and the agent must lift them to distinguish their physical properties. Target identification
and completion of the requested physical operation are scored separately.
The short-horizon split groups T11, T13–T15, and T20 as easy tasks, and T12 and T16–T19 as hard tasks.
These groups distinguish elementary grasping and actuation from more constrained pushing, articulated
motion, orientation control, insertion, and contact coverage. The long-horizon easy subset comprises T23,
T24, T26, T27, and T29; the hard subset comprises T21, T22, T25, T28, and T30. Its harder tasks combine goal
interpretation, temporary-buffer planning, persistent contact constraints, or coupled mechanism interactions.
Each difficulty subset contains five tasks and receives equal task weighting internally.
B.2
Task-specific success semantics
The evaluators combine terminal predicates with physical event histories according to the task instruction.
Object placement and ordinary articulation tasks use the corresponding containment, support, or joint
predicates. Tasks involving counting, support constraints, or causal dependencies additionally record
intermediate events. Full success and partial stage completion are stored separately.
Paired textual and visual goals.
T21 and T22 share a scene definition, an initial-state bank, and five terminal
predicates. T21 communicates the desired arrangement in text, whereas T22 supplies a goal image. Both
accept any execution order that satisfies the five goals at termination. The evaluator records changes in the set
of satisfied goals, including regressions when later actions disturb an earlier placement or mechanism state.
A goal that was satisfied earlier but is false at termination does not contribute to the automatic terminal-goal
count.
14


Table 6 Perception-focused tasks. The target-selection requirement is distinct from the complete physical outcome. The
identifiers T01–T30 are shared across the task catalogs and execution examples.
ID
Primary information
Required physical outcome
T01
Object pose
Place the only upright marker in the collection bin.
T02
Spatial relation
Place the object between the other two objects in the basket.
T03
Color
Place the red object in the collection bin.
T04
Texture
Place the striped object in the collection bin.
T05
Instance marking
Place the object with exactly one square mark in the collection bin.
T06
Shape
Press the button paired with the small ball, among ball, cylinder, and cube
candidates.
T07
Object category
Place the cola in the collection bin.
T08
Physical property
Physically sample all three visually identical mugs and place the heaviest in
the green bin.
T09
Reflectance
Press the button paired with the most reflective object.
T10
Size
Press the button paired with the largest cylinder.
Table 7 Short-horizon manipulation tasks. Easy and hard refer to the evaluation split. A short-horizon task can contain
several physical events, but its reported task success requires the complete operation.
ID
Split
Task
Success requirement
T11
Easy
Pick and place
Alphabet soup is in the basket.
T12
Hard
Push plate
The plate reaches the specified region in front of the stove.
T13
Easy
Press button
The red button is physically actuated.
T14
Easy
Close drawer
The cabinet’s top drawer reaches its closed state.
T15
Easy
Open drawer
The cabinet’s top drawer reaches its open state.
T16
Hard
Open microwave
The microwave door reaches its open state.
T17
Hard
Turn on stove
The stove knob reaches the activation condition.
T18
Hard
Insert tube
The blue chemistry tube satisfies the target slot’s position, vertical
alignment, and motion tolerances.
T19
Hard
Wipe spill
Grasp the sponge, cover the spill through physical wiping contact,
and release the sponge on the blue rest area.
T20
Easy
Pour into mug
Lift the wine bottle and complete a physical pour event over the
mug.
15


Table 8 Long-horizon task requirements and scoring units. 𝐾denotes the number of scored stages or goals. Cooking
goals are evaluated at the terminal state without an imposed order.
ID
Split
𝐾
Goals or stages
T21
Hard
5
Prepare the cooking area from text: moka pot on its stove, that stove on, frying pan on
its stove, that stove on, and microwave open.
T22
Hard
5
Match the cooking goal image, using the same five physical goals as T21.
T23
Easy
8
Open and close the top, middle, and bottom drawers in order; reopen the occupied
drawer; place butter inside it. Final closure is optional.
T24
Easy
4
Lift the tomato-sauce bottle, complete two distinct pours over the frying pan, and place
the bottle in the bowl drainer.
T25
Hard
4
Move the left bowl to the empty plate, the middle bowl to the left plate, the right bowl
to the middle plate, and the buffered bowl to the right plate. No bowl may touch the
tabletop.
T26
Easy
3
Transfer tomato sauce, milk, and orange juice from the first cabinet to the second cabinet.
T27
Easy
4
Open the middle drawer, place cookies inside, place chocolate inside, and close the
drawer.
T28
Hard
2
Release the rotating latch and open the door.
T29
Easy
3
Lift the hammer, establish hammer–nail contact, and drive the nail into the block.
T30
Hard
4
Place the first and second counterweights, produce a physical lift through the seesaw,
and place the exposed target in the basket.
Ordered search and placement.
T23 checks the drawer inspection sequence before the final butter placement.
The occupied target drawer is determined from the initial scene. Its eight required stages exclude an optional
final closure. T27 instead explicitly requires closure after the two placements, so closure contributes to its
four-stage score. The evaluator records ordered progress and checks the required final object arrangement.
Repeated events and persistent constraints.
For T24, two pours must be distinct physical events; the pour counter
tracks bottle elevation, tilt, and placement relative to the receptacle, and rejects a detected third pour. T25
uses the empty plate as a temporary buffer and records the four ordered transfers. Bowl–table contact is
monitored throughout execution, and the final buffer must be empty. T30 requires released counterweights
to contact the movable board before the mechanism lifts the target. At completion, the target must be in the
basket while both counterweights remain supported at the far end.
Active sensing and contact-dependent operations.
T08 uses three visually identical mugs with masses of 0.18, 0.36,
and 0.72 kg. Its automatic evaluator requires grasp-and-lift evidence for each mug, followed by placement of
the heaviest mug in the green bin, released and clear of the gripper. Mass labels remain evaluator-private.
T19 requires the grasped sponge to cover seven spill markers during physical table contact before it is released
on the rest area. T29 requires hammer–nail contact before accepting a nail displacement of at least 0.075 m.
Insertion geometry.
The automatic tube checker in T18 tests lateral error of at most 0.018 m, a tube-root height
relative to the rack root in [0.032, 0.085] m, absolute tube-axis alignment with the vertical of at least 0.97,
linear speed of at most 0.08 m/s, and angular speed of at most 0.60 rad/s. Absolute axis alignment measures
verticality and is insensitive to end-for-end reversal.
B.3
Episode conditions and outcome adjudication
The primary comparison evaluates GPT-6 Astra, GPT-5.6 Sol, Claude Opus 5, Claude Fable 5.1, DeepSeek V4.1
Flash, Kimi K3, and Qwen3.8-Max. Each configuration contributes three executions of every primary task, for
90 episodes per agent. The simulator seed is fixed at 100, and the task-specific initial state is held fixed across
the three executions. These repetitions measure variation in agent execution under the same scene conditions.
16


Primary runs use high reasoning effort where supported, full observations, and no demonstrations. Each
episode has a 1,800-second evaluator wall-clock limit. The recorded prompts specify a ceiling of 1,000,000
accepted OSC sequence submissions, with 1–50 native actions per submission; the wall-clock limit is the
operative execution budget. A native action advances one 20 Hz control interval. The agent can write local
programs and inspect selected files in its episode workspace. Benchmark observations and evaluator-private
records are kept separate in the data interface.
17


C
Task Prompts and Demonstration Context
C.1
Shared episode prompt
Each episode provides the task instruction followed by a shared execution prompt. Figure 5 reproduces the
no-demonstration prompt from the successful T23 execution used in Appendix D. Line breaks are added for
layout. The reference to reset attempts is retained from the recorded template; the evaluated configuration
exposes no reset operation. Task-specific strategy and control programs are supplied by the agent during
execution.
Recorded task and shared execution prompt
Open and close all drawers in order to check. Put butter into the
drawer that already contains an object.
A LIBERO episode has been prepared for you.
This query has a 1800-second evaluator wall-clock budget shared by
all reset attempts. Exceeding it ends the query as an official
task failure.
1. Call the ‘start_episode‘ robot tool exactly once to begin and
receive the initial observation and ‘max_agent_steps‘ budget.
2. Control the robot with the ‘osc_sequence‘ robot tool. Its
‘actions‘ argument is an array of 1 to 50 normalized 7D OSC_POSE
micro actions in ‘[dx, dy, dz, rx, ry, rz, gripper]‘ order.
Every component must be within [-1, 1]. Each vector executes
one LIBERO policy interval; translation 1.0 corresponds to
0.05 m, rotation 1.0 to a 0.5 rad rotation-vector component,
gripper -1 opens, and +1 closes. One sequence call counts as
one Agent action, with at most 1000000 accepted calls.
3. Wait for each action to complete, then inspect
‘benchmark_inputs/current_observation/observation.json‘ and any
referenced files before issuing another command.
4. When you have completed the task, call the ‘finish_episode‘
robot tool exactly once. Only finish reports official task
success.
Figure 5 Shared episode instructions, shown with the T23 task text. The prompt describes the interaction contract and
points to the current observation. It supplies no drawer-opening or object-transfer program.
For demonstration-conditioned episodes, the following notice is inserted after the task instruction:
A demonstration from a separate episode of the same task is available at benchmark_inputs/expert_de
mo/. The current scene configuration and object or goal poses may differ.
Both demonstration conditions use this notice. The available files determine whether the reference contains
video alone or video together with an action trajectory.
C.2
Representative task instructions
Task instructions state the desired operation and its public constraints. The following examples preserve the
recorded task wording:
T08, physical perception. Determine which of the three visually identical mugs is heaviest by physically
weighing them, then place the heaviest mug in the green bin.
T18, precision manipulation. Pick up the blue chemistry tube and insert it vertically into the rear-center
empty slot of the tube rack.
18


T25, constrained rearrangement. Cyclically rearrange the three black bowls from left to right in the head
camera. No bowl may touch the tabletop at any time.
T28, coupled articulation. Open the door. It is secured by a rotating latch.
T30, mechanism use. Lift the hidden object and place it in the basket.
The weighing prompt requires physical sampling but does not identify the heaviest mug. The rearrangement
prompt communicates the support constraint without naming the empty plate as a buffer. The seesaw prompt
leaves the mechanism-use strategy to the agent and, when available, its demonstration.
C.3
Video and action-trajectory bundles
Demonstrations come from separate successful executions of the same task. Their public representation is
specified in Table 9. The video contains synchronized head and wrist RGB views displayed side by side at 20
frames per second. Each view also has a contact sheet with at most 12 uniformly sampled frames, retaining
the sequence endpoints. These sheets provide a directly viewable overview; the agent can inspect the video
further using its own tools.
Table 9 Contents of the demonstration bundle. These columns describe historical reference data; the live observation
profile is held fixed across the context comparison.
Reference content
None
Video
Video + Traj.
Head/wrist RGB video
—
Yes
Yes
RGB contact sheets
—
Yes
Yes
Ordered native OSC action vectors
—
—
Yes
Reference depth, calibration, or robot-state stream
—
—
—
Private object states or checker progress
—
—
—
Video + Traj. adds trajectory.jsonl. Each row pairs a zero-based action_index with an action object.
The object contains a schema identifier and a normalized_vector_7d field. Its seven components follow
the online OSC convention: three translation components, three rotation-vector components, and one gripper
command. All values lie in [−1, 1], with one action vector per policy interval. The trajectory contains issued
actions; it does not include a numerical stream of measured end-effector poses.
Bundle validation checks the task instruction, file inventory, action dimensions and ranges, contiguous action
indices, and consistency of the declared frame and action counts. The agent receives a manifest, the RGB
video, two contact sheets, and, for Video + Traj., the action file. Current scene observations remain distinct
from historical demonstration content, allowing the agent to adapt its execution to the observed scene.
19


D
Programs Constructed During Successful Executions
We examine two successful GPT-6 Astra episodes under high reasoning effort, full observations, and no
demonstrations: drawer inspection and placement (T23), and physical weighing (T08). The examples connect
visible program construction and tool use to recorded observations, executed actions, and final task outcomes.
Code excerpts preserve the recorded computations, with line wrapping and omission of unrelated display
operations. The programs were created during these episodes rather than supplied as task-level primitives.
D.1
Computing spatial coordinates from selected image locations
At the beginning of T23, Astra inspects the scene and samples selected pixels from the head-camera depth
array. It loads the camera intrinsics and camera-to-robot-base transform, back-projects each selected pixel, and
prints its three-dimensional coordinate. Figure 6 shows two returned surface points. The agent subsequently
issues an approach command with an end-effector target at (0.63, 0.34, 0.273) m before moving closer.
The pixel locations are selected by the agent. Their back-projected coordinates are measurements of visible
surfaces, from which the agent chooses an end-effector target with an approach offset. This trace shows
how publicly available depth and calibration enter local computation before control. Object poses and grasp
targets are not supplied by the evaluator.
T23: agent-written depth back-projection
import json, numpy as np
p = ’benchmark_inputs/current_observation/’
o = json.load(open(p + ’observation.json’))
c = o[’cameras’][’head’]
d = np.load(p + c[’depth’][’metric_file’])
K = np.array(c[’intrinsic_matrix_3x3’])
T = np.array(c[’matrix_T_robot_base_from_camera_opencv_4x4’])
for v in [124,128,132,140,144,148,152,156]:
for u in [214,217,220]:
a = T @ np.r_[
np.linalg.inv(K) @ np.array([u,v,1]) * d[v,u], 1]
print((u,v), a[:3].round(3))
Selected tool output
(217, 128) [0.642 0.428 0.272]
(220, 128) [0.643 0.442 0.273]
Figure 6 Numerical geometry constructed from public observations in a successful drawer-search episode. The excerpt
and output come from the recorded tool call. Coordinates are expressed in the robot-base frame and measured in metres.
The agent selects the pixels and subsequent approach targets.
D.2
Constructing and reusing a pose-feedback helper
In the same T23 episode, Astra creates a local Python helper, robot_pose.py. Each invocation reads the
current end-effector pose, computes position and rotation errors relative to command-line targets, clips
the resulting normalized control values, and prints a JSON action sequence. Figure 7 shows the helper’s
action-generation branch and its subsequent connection to the MCP tool. The rotation error uses the relative
rotation 𝑅target𝑅−1
current in rotation-vector form.
The helper repeats one computed action within a submitted batch. Feedback is refreshed between batches,
when the agent invokes the helper again on the newly published observation. In the initial orientation
adjustment, six consecutive batches execute 60 control steps while retaining the same target orientation. The
measured angular error falls from 121.88◦to 0.76◦. Table 10 reports this and three subsequent same-orientation
correction sequences from the episode. Positions can change while the orientation target is held fixed.
20


The evaluator records all eight required T23 stages as completed. The episode uses 57 accepted control
submissions and 895 native control steps; the agent also performs the optional final drawer closure. The first
drawer opening is recorded at control step 205, and the required butter placement at step 732. These events
connect the programming example to a complete successful task execution.
T23: action-generation branch of robot_pose.py
import json, sys, numpy as np
from scipy.spatial.transform import Rotation as R
p = ’benchmark_inputs/current_observation/’
o = json.load(open(p + ’observation.json’))
s = o[’state’]
pose = s[’eef_pose_robot_base_xyzw_7d’]
if len(sys.argv) > 1:
target = np.array([float(x) for x in sys.argv[1:4]])
q = np.array([float(x) for x in sys.argv[4:8]])
g = float(sys.argv[8])
n = int(sys.argv[9])
dp = target - pose[:3]
dr = (R.from_quat(q) *
R.from_quat(pose[3:]).inv()).as_rotvec()
a = np.r_[np.clip(dp*5,-1,1), np.clip(dr*.8,-1,1), g]
print(json.dumps({’actions’: [a.tolist() for _ in range(n)]}))
Recorded invocation and action submission
const r = await tools.exec_command({
cmd: "python /tmp/robot_pose.py .63 .34 .273 " +
"0 .70710678 .70710678 0 -1 10",
max_output_tokens: 3000
});
text(await tools.mcp__libero__osc_sequence(JSON.parse(r.output)));
Execution receipt, selected fields
"command_completed": true, "control_steps": 10,
"termination_reason": "sequence_executed",
"observation_id": "obs_000002"
Figure 7 Astra constructs a pose-feedback helper and passes its numerical output to native OSC control. The helper is
generated in the session. Its action-generation branch is shown with whitespace expanded; the read-only diagnostic
branch is omitted. The shell-command string is split for layout. A receipt establishes execution of the sequence; task
completion is checked separately.
D.3
Acquiring physical evidence through active probing
T08 provides a complementary example in which the necessary evidence is obtained through interaction.
Astra successively grasps and lifts the three visually identical mugs. For each mug it executes a batch of 20
upward commands followed by 20 commands with zero pose increments and a closing gripper command. It
then reads the current state and proprioception and inspects an RGB image. Figure 8 shows this repeated
action pattern and the corresponding force readings.
The sensor-frame 𝑧components after the three lift-and-hold batches are −8.64, −12.19, and −6.86 N. The
middle mug produces the largest load magnitude, and the agent subsequently places it in the green bin. The
private evaluator confirms that all three mugs were physically sampled and that the heaviest was placed,
released, and left clear of the gripper. The episode completes all four required events in 28 accepted control
submissions and 614 native control steps.
These are raw end-effector sensor readings, which include the gripper load and are expressed in the sensor
frame. The trace demonstrates repeated physical probing followed by successful target selection; it does not
21


Table 10 Repeated orientation corrections in the successful T23 episode. Each sequence uses fresh state before successive
control batches and retains a common target orientation. Angular error is measured from the recorded end-effector
quaternion to the agent-selected target.
Sequence
Control batches
Control steps
Initial error
Final error
1
6
60
121.88◦
0.76◦
2
4
42
89.68◦
2.26◦
3
5
61
87.99◦
0.14◦
4
4
46
90.42◦
0.61◦
contain an explicit calibrated mass-estimation program. Here, zero pose increments create a hold interval for
sensing within the manipulation sequence.
T08: recorded lift-and-hold action pattern
text(await tools.mcp__libero__osc_sequence({actions: [
...Array.from({length:20}, () => [0,0,0.6,0,0,0,1]),
...Array.from({length:20}, () => [0,0,0,0,0,0,1])
]}));
Python executed immediately after the action
import json
x = json.load(open(
’benchmark_inputs/current_observation/observation.json’))
print(x[’state’])
print(x[’proprioception’])
Observed values after each lift-and-hold batch
Probe
Sensor 𝐹𝑧(N)
EEF height (m)
Jaw width (m)
Left mug
−8.635
0.207
0.0613
Middle mug
−12.195
0.180
0.0622
Right mug
−6.861
0.204
0.0616
Final evaluation: all three mugs sampled; heaviest mug in the green bin, released and clear of the gripper; 4/4
events completed.
Figure 8 Active sensing in a successful weighing episode. The same lift-and-hold command pattern is issued for each
mug, followed by a state and proprioception read. Values are rounded from the returned observations. Mug locations
refer to the initial head-camera view; height is in the robot-base frame and force is in the sensor frame.
22


E
Per-task Results Across Three Rollouts
In this section, we record the per task rollout results. Binary entries give full-task successes out of three
rollouts. Long-horizon entries give the sum of three normalized stage-completion fractions divided by three;
𝐾denotes the number of stages. The supplementary material provides the complete rollout-level evaluation
records.
Table 11 Perception: full-task successes out of three rollouts.
Agent
T01
Upright
marker
T02
Between
objects
T03
Red
object
T04
Striped
object
T05
Marked
instance
T06
Ball
shape
T07
Cola
drink
T08
Heaviest
mug
T09
Highest
reflectance
T10
Largest
cylinder
GPT-6 Astra
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
GPT-5.6 Sol
1/3
0/3
2/3
1/3
2/3
3/3
1/3
1/3
1/3
2/3
Claude Opus 5
3/3
2/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
2/3
3/3
3/3
Claude Fable 5.1
2/3
2/3
1/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
2/3
3/3
3/3
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
1/3
1/3
1/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
1/3
2/3
Kimi K3
1/3
0/3
0/3
2/3
0/3
3/3
1/3
1/3
1/3
2/3
Qwen3.8-Max
1/3
2/3
2/3
2/3
2/3
3/3
1/3
1/3
3/3
3/3
Table 12 Short-horizon manipulation: full-task successes out of three rollouts.
Agent
T11
Pick
soup
T12
Push
plate
T13
Press
button
T14
Close
drawer
T15
Open
drawer
T16
Open
microwave
T17
Turn on
stove
T18
Insert
tube
T19
Wipe
spill
T20
Pour
wine
GPT-6 Astra
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
2/3
0/3
2/3
3/3
GPT-5.6 Sol
3/3
0/3
2/3
3/3
0/3
0/3
2/3
0/3
0/3
2/3
Claude Opus 5
3/3
1/3
3/3
2/3
3/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
2/3
Claude Fable 5.1
3/3
0/3
3/3
2/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
2/3
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
1/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
1/3
Kimi K3
2/3
0/3
1/3
2/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
1/3
Qwen3.8-Max
2/3
0/3
3/3
2/3
2/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
1/3
1/3
Table 13 Long-horizon manipulation: summed normalized stage-completion scores divided by three.
Agent
T21
Cooking
(text)
T22
Cooking
(image)
T23
Drawer
search
T24
Pour
twice
T25
Rotate
bowls
T26
Cabinet
transfer
T27
Drawer
storage
T28
Unlatch
door
T29
Hammer
nail
T30
Use
seesaw
𝐾
5
5
8
4
4
3
4
2
3
4
GPT-6 Astra
1.80/3
0.80/3
3.00/3
2.00/3
0.00/3
3.00/3
1.00/3
2.50/3
2.00/3
1.00/3
GPT-5.6 Sol
0.80/3
0.20/3
0.25/3
2.00/3
0.75/3
1.67/3
1.00/3
0.00/3
0.67/3
0.00/3
Claude Opus 5
0.00/3
0.40/3
0.00/3
1.50/3
0.00/3
0.33/3
0.00/3
0.50/3
1.00/3
0.00/3
Claude Fable 5.1
0.20/3
0.20/3
0.00/3
1.50/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
1.00/3
2.33/3
0.00/3
DeepSeek V4.1 Flash
0.00/3
0.80/3
0.00/3
0.75/3
0.00/3
1.33/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
1.00/3
0.00/3
Kimi K3
0.00/3
0.80/3
1.00/3
0.75/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
0.50/3
0.00/3
0.33/3
0.00/3
Qwen3.8-Max
0.80/3
0.40/3
0.62/3
2.00/3
0.00/3
0.67/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
23


Table 14 Observation ablation: task successes out of three rollouts (L1–L3).
Agent
Obs.
T11
Pick
soup
T12
Push
plate
T13
Press
button
T14
Close
drawer
T15
Open
drawer
T16
Open
microwave
T17
Turn on
stove
T18
Insert
tube
T19
Wipe
spill
T20
Pour
wine
Astra
L1
2/3
2/3
1/3
2/3
3/3
3/3
2/3
0/3
1/3
3/3
L2
3/3
3/3
3/3
2/3
3/3
2/3
1/3
0/3
2/3
3/3
L3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
2/3
0/3
2/3
3/3
Opus
L1
1/3
0/3
3/3
2/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
L2
0/3
1/3
3/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
L3
3/3
1/3
3/3
2/3
3/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
2/3
Fable
L1
1/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
L2
1/3
0/3
2/3
1/3
0/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
0/3
0/3
L3
3/3
0/3
3/3
2/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
0/3
1/3
2/3
Table 15 Context ablation: summed normalized stage-completion scores divided by three.
Agent
Context
T21
Cooking
(text)
T22
Cooking
(image)
T23
Drawer
search
T24
Pour
twice
T25
Rotate
bowls
T26
Cabinet
transfer
T27
Drawer
storage
T28
Unlatch
door
T29
Hammer
nail
T30
Use
seesaw
Astra
None
1.80/3
0.80/3
3.00/3
2.00/3
0.00/3
3.00/3
1.00/3
2.50/3
2.00/3
1.00/3
Video
1.60/3
1.60/3
3.00/3
3.00/3
3.00/3
2.67/3
3.00/3
2.50/3
3.00/3
2.25/3
Video + Traj.
2.40/3
1.40/3
3.00/3
2.50/3
2.00/3
3.00/3
3.00/3
1.50/3
3.00/3
2.00/3
Opus
None
0.00/3
0.40/3
0.00/3
1.50/3
0.00/3
0.33/3
0.00/3
0.50/3
1.00/3
0.00/3
Video
0.40/3
0.00/3
0.12/3
1.50/3
0.75/3
1.33/3
0.50/3
0.00/3
2.00/3
0.00/3
Video + Traj.
0.20/3
0.20/3
1.00/3
1.50/3
0.00/3
1.00/3
0.75/3
0.00/3
2.67/3
0.00/3
Fable
None
0.20/3
0.20/3
0.00/3
1.50/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
0.00/3
1.00/3
2.33/3
0.00/3
Video
0.20/3
0.00/3
1.38/3
1.50/3
1.00/3
0.33/3
0.50/3
0.00/3
3.00/3
0.25/3
Video + Traj.
0.00/3
0.00/3
1.25/3
2.00/3
1.25/3
0.67/3
0.75/3
0.00/3
2.33/3
0.75/3
24


F
Qualitative Rollout Visualizations
We visualize successful and unsuccessful executions from the perception, short-horizon manipulation, and
long-horizon suites. Each example shows synchronized head-camera and wrist-camera views at selected
control steps. The perception examples share the same task, while the manipulation and long-horizon
examples illustrate different tasks within their respective suites.
F.1
Perception
Success: T04, select the striped object
Step 0
Head
Wrist
Step 40
Step 80
Step 100
Step 140
Step 168
Failure: T04, select the striped object
Step 0
Head
Wrist
Step 80
Step 140
Step 160
Step 180
Step 210
Figure 9 Perception rollouts on T04. The instruction is to place the striped object in the collection bin. The successful
execution transfers the striped object to the bin. In the unsuccessful execution, the robot also transports the striped object
toward the bin, but its final placement does not satisfy the task’s success check. The wrist view exposes the texture cues
and the objects near the gripper, while the head view shows their positions relative to the bin.
25


F.2
Short-horizon manipulation
Success: T16, open the microwave
Step 0
Head
Wrist
Step 100
Step 200
Step 260
Step 340
Step 472
Failure: T19, wipe the spill
Step 0
Head
Wrist
Step 200
Step 277
Step 340
Step 540
Step 765
Figure 10 Short-horizon manipulation rollouts. Top: a successful T16 execution opens the microwave door. The selected
frames show approach, gripper reorientation, and door opening. Bottom: an unsuccessful T19 execution attempts to
grasp the sponge but leaves the spill unwiped when the time budget expires. The brown spill remains visible throughout
the selected frames. The paired views show the gripper configuration and its relation to the handle or sponge.
26


F.3
Long-horizon execution
Success: T23, inspect drawers and place butter
Step 84
Head
Wrist
Step 198
Step 312
Step 447
Step 720
Step 829
Failure: T27, place cookies and chocolate in the drawer
Step 0
Head
Wrist
Step 176
Step 472
Step 840
Step 1080
Step 1321
Figure 11 Long-horizon rollouts. Top: a successful T23 execution opens and closes the drawers to inspect their contents,
reopens the occupied drawer, and places butter inside. The selected frames show the top, middle, and bottom drawer
openings, the occupied drawer reopened, butter placement, and the final configuration. All eight required stages are
completed. Bottom: an unsuccessful T27 execution opens the middle drawer and places cookies inside, but does not
complete the subsequent chocolate placement before the time budget expires. It completes two of four required stages;
the final frame shows the chocolate outside the drawer.
27
