SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for
Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Saksham Singh1, Zheyuan Hu1, Max Sobol Mark1, Jeffrey Yu1, Zackory Erickson1 and Aviral Kumar1
1Carnegie Mellon University
Diverse Robotics Data
Labeled Trajectories
SeeQ: Generalist Value Pretraining
VLM
pretrained with internet data
Task Prompts
observations
actions
<Δx, Δy, Δz, …>
rewards
0  /  1
subtask 
labels
“reach the cup”
Subtask Prediction
Q(s, at : t + h - 1 , task)
States
Actions
Finetuning on Downstream Task
Task-Specific
Dataset
mistake
recover
success
Test Time Policy Steering
Sample Action Chunks from VLA
a
0
t : t + h - 1
a
1
t : t + h - 1
a
N-1
t : t + h - 1
a
N
t : t + h - 1
Q(s, at : t + h , “Hang Shirt onto the Clothes Rack” )
0.22
0.81
0.57
0.46
……
……
Rollout Timesteps
1
0
Finetune
SeeQ
Value Plot
Figure 1: SeeQ overview. We train a generalist Q-value function on diverse robot data using a pretrained vision-language
model (VLM) backbone. The value function is then fine-tuned on a downstream task and used to steer a base policy at test
time. To address the challenges of long-horizon value learning, we use temporal-difference (TD) learning to fit the Q-value of
the currently active subtask rather than that of the entire task. To eliminate the need for humans to specify this subtask at
deployment, we modify the Q-function architecture to first predict the active subtask in natural language and then predict its
value, encouraging internal representations better aligned with subtask-level value estimation.
Abstract: Despite rapid progress, generalist robot policies remain brittle on complex, long-horizon tasks that
comprise multiple stages or require repeated attempts and deliberation on the same underlying stage before
success. Q-value functions can improve these policies by ranking candidate actions or guiding policy improvement,
but learning from sparse task-level rewards entails long credit-assignment horizons, difficult Bellman backups,
and broad data-coverage requirements. We introduce SeeQ (Subtask-elicited Q-functions), which instead learns
Q-values for the currently active subtask. This shortens the value-prediction horizon and enables effective learning
with temporal-difference (TD) objectives. During training, subtask-level annotations present in offline robot data
provide the decomposition and enable learning from broad, potentially suboptimal robot datasets. To eliminate
the need for human annotations or modular subtask prediction systems at test time, our Q-function architecture is
trained to autoregressively predict the active subtask in natural language before estimating its value. We instantiate
SeeQ using a base vision-language backbone, pretrain it on diverse open-source robot manipulation data, and
finetune it on downstream tasks. Across four real-world manipulation tasks on two bimanual robot platforms, the
SeeQ value function substantially improves best-of-𝑁policy steering.
1. Introduction
Generalist robot policies provide a promising foundation for robot control: they acquire useful perceptual
and motor priors, follow language instructions, and transfer across objects, scenes, and embodiments [14].
Yet robust autonomous deployment remains challenging, particularly for tasks that unfold over long
horizons or demand high precision. Some long-horizon tasks may involve multiple stages, while others
Corresponding author: saksham3@andrew.cmu.edu. Project website with videos: https://saksham002.github.io/seeq/.
Pretrained SeeQ checkpoint: https://huggingface.co/CMU-AIRe/SeeQ-3B/.
arXiv:2609.22085v1  [cs.RO]  18 Sep 2026


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
might simply be shorter precision-heavy tasks that require deliberating among similar actions and retrying
after imperfect attempts. Imitation-trained policies struggle in both settings: errors compound over time,
recovery behaviors are underrepresented in expert datasets, and behaviors of varying quality are modeled
indiscriminately. Value functions offer a natural remedy by distinguishing actions that make progress
from those that lead to failure, thereby steering a base policy toward more successful behavior [26].
Recent work has shown that learned value functions can substantially improve imitation learning policies
in the real world [13, 24, 32]. Ideally, rather than learning a separate value function from scratch for
each task, we would train a single generalist Q-function that can improve policies across many tasks
while benefiting from large-scale pretraining and diverse robot data. However, effective value-learning
methods such as temporal-difference (TD) learning become unreliable over long horizons [28], precisely
the regime in which complex tasks present the greatest challenges. Some approaches avoid this issue by
discarding TD learning and directly regressing to Monte Carlo returns. Without TD learning, however,
the value function cannot improve the policy far beyond the data collection policy, which limits the extent
to which value learning can be helpful. This raises the central question of our work: can we build a
generalist value learning approach that utilizes TD learning to learn from diverse data, sidesteps training
over long-horizons, but can still produce value functions that are useful for long-horizon tasks?
Our approach exploits a common structure in manipulation tasks: although a task specifies a distant
outcome, the robot’s behavior at any moment is typically directed toward an immediate objective. Multi-
stage tasks progress through intermediate milestones, such as grasping an object before placing it, while
precision- or deliberation-heavy tasks may require repeated attempts to accomplish a given stage, but each
attempt may follow a particular short-horizon objective. In both cases, evaluating progress toward the
active subtask requires a shorter prediction horizon than evaluating success on the full task. Building on
this structure, we train a generalist Q-function on a vision-language model (VLM) backbone and redefine
its prediction target. Rather than modeling sparse success over the full task, the Q-function estimates
the expected return for the currently active subtask. This yields SeeQ (Subtask-elicited Q-functions),
which recasts long-horizon value learning as short-horizon, subtask-level value learning. To eliminate the
need for subtask annotations at test time, we modify the Q-function to first predict the active subtask in
natural language and then estimate its value. In addition, this objective improves robustness near subtask
transitions and aligns value estimation with the pretrained VLM’s text-generation capabilities.
We instantiate SeeQ using a pretrained 3B PaliGemma vision-language backbone [5] and train it on
diverse robot manipulation datasets with subtask annotations, including RoboCOIN [33]. We evaluate
whether the resulting Q-function can infer subtasks for held-out instructions, adapt to new embodiments
with limited fine-tuning, and improve fixed, generalist imitation-learned policies. Empirically, SeeQ
decomposes out-of-distribution tasks into meaningful subtask spans and predicts useful values for them,
with the subtask-prediction loss proving critical to performance. When used for best-of-𝑁action selection,
SeeQ improves generalist robot policies [14] on four real-world bimanual manipulation tasks across
two robot platforms, including precision-heavy tasks with deformable objects requiring recovery and
planning-heavy tasks comprising many stages. These results suggest that subtask-level values provide a
more effective learning target than sparse, long-horizon success when training generalist Q-functions.
2. Preliminaries, Definitions, and Notation
We formulate our problem in a language-conditioned robotic manipulation setting with access to a base
generalist policy, 𝜋base, that we wish to improve. In our experiments, we often finetune an off-the-shelf
policy on in-domain teleoperation data. Given a natural language task instruction 𝑙and a state s𝑡,
2


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
specified by visual observations (e.g., over-the-shoulder and wrist cameras) and proprioceptive robot
state, the policy produces an action chunk [37], i.e., a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1 ∼𝜋base(· | s𝑡, 𝑙). The environment then
executes this chunk, or a short prefix of it, before replanning from a new state.
To improve this policy, typically we learn a Q-function that estimates the expected reward-to-go of an
action chunk a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1 from state s𝑡, conditioned on the task instruction 𝑙. The instruction specifies a
sparse reward function 𝑟𝑙, where 𝑟𝑙(s𝑡) = 1 if task 𝑙is complete at state s𝑡and 0 otherwise. Formally, the
Q-function for instruction 𝑙is 𝑄𝜇
𝑙(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1) = E𝜇
[︁∑︀∞
𝑗=0 𝛾𝑗𝑟𝑙(s𝑡+𝑗)|s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1
]︁
, where 𝜇denotes the
policy used after the initial action chunk and 𝛾∈[0, 1) is a discount factor.
Q-function training approaches. We aim to train a generalist Q-function 𝑄𝜃(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, 𝑙) from an
offline dataset 𝒟pre of robot trajectories. Q-functions can be trained in several ways. The simplest
analogue of supervised training is Monte Carlo (MC) regression. Given a trajectory 𝜏∼𝒟pre, with
𝜏:= (s0, a0, r0, s1, a1, . . .), we can compute a return-to-go target from the rewards observed later in the
trajectory and regress the Q-function to this target. We call this approach MC. MC regression avoids
error compounding from training on self-generated targets; however, the return-to-go target has high
variance which affects the quality of the Q-function. Moreover, the learned MC Q-function models
the return-to-go under the behavior policy distribution induced by the training dataset, which may be
undesirable especially if the data is collected from a suboptimal policy.
An appealing way to address variance is to leverage the Bellman equation and train the Q-function via
temporal-difference (TD) learning. Using Q-chunking [20], TD learning combines discounted rewards
over the action chunk with a bootstrapped value estimate from a stale target network 𝑄¯𝜃:
𝑦𝑙
𝑡=
𝐻−1
∑︁
𝑗=0
𝛾𝑗𝑟𝑙(s𝑡+𝑗) + 𝛾𝐻𝑄¯𝜃
(︀
s𝑡+𝐻, a′
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1, 𝑙
)︀
,
ℒTD(𝜃) = E𝜏∼𝒟pre, 𝑡
[︂(︁
𝑄𝜃(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, 𝑙) −𝑦𝑙
𝑡
)︁2]︂
,
(1)
where a′
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1 ∼𝜇(· | s𝑡+𝐻) is an action chunk used in the backup. The choice of 𝜇determines the
kind of TD update. If 𝜇is the behavior policy that generated the dataset, then we can simply use the next
action chunk a𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1 that appears in 𝒟pre. This approach is called SARSA. Bootstrapping reduces
the variance of the target relative to MC, but the bootstrapping errors now compound with every backup,
so SARSA does suffer from errors compounding over the horizon. Additionally, since the backup uses the
dataset’s own actions, the resulting Q-function is fit to the action distribution of the behavior policy.
Alternatively, we could select the action chunk that maximizes the target Q-function at the next state.
Computing this maximum exactly is intractable because action chunks are high-dimensional and learning
a separate policy-improvement operator is both costly and unstable in offline RL [24]. Instead, we exploit
the fact that generalist policies provide a strong prior over the relevant action space: we sample 𝑁chunks
from the base policy and select the one with the highest target value:
a(𝑖)
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1 ∼𝜋base(·|s𝑡+𝐻, 𝑙),
𝑖= 1, . . . , 𝑁,
a′
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1 =
arg max
a∈{a(𝑖)
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1}𝑁
𝑖=1
𝑄¯𝜃(s𝑡+𝐻, a, 𝑙),
(2)
This best-of-𝑁style action selection for the Bellman backup trains the Q-function to evaluate actions
that may be better than those observed in the dataset, making it more useful for policy improvement
than SARSA. We refer to this approach as TD learning over a best-of-𝑁policy (TD-BoN). Unlike SARSA,
3


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
however, the backup uses actions sampled from the base policy, so the resulting Q-function is fit to
the action distribution of an improved policy. TD-BoN is expected to perform better than SARSA when
the training data presents high coverage and several counterfactual (and suboptimal) behaviors. Both
approaches that use bootstrapping remain prone to challenges from propagating sparse reward signals
over long horizons and from limited coverage of relevant state-action pairs [28]. Modern robotic datasets,
which often contain teleoperated or human-recorded long-horizon trajectories, exhibit both challenges.
Thus, it is important to carefully design the learning objective for training generalist Q-functions.
Language conditioning for generalist Q-functions. Independent of the training objective, we must
choose what inputs the Q-function obtains. In addition to the state-action pair, we also need to condition
any generalist Q-function some form of a language instruction. There are several choices for doing so.
The first option conditions only on the task instruction 𝑙, as in 𝑄𝜃(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, 𝑙) above, so the Q-function
models the reward-to-go of the full task. The second option assumes that each trajectory is additionally
segmented into subtasks, and denotes the active subtask at state s𝑡by ˜𝑙𝑡. The Q-function then takes
both the task and the active subtask as input, 𝑄𝜃(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, 𝑙, ˜𝑙𝑡), but is trained to model only the value
of the active subtask, i.e., the reward-to-go under the subtask reward 𝑟˜𝑙𝑡rather than the task reward
𝑟𝑙. The task 𝑙is included as an input in this option only to make predicting the subtask tractable: the
ground-truth subtask ˜𝑙𝑡is not available at inference time and must be inferred from the observation and
the task instruction. Conditioning on the task alone means the Q-function must assign credit over the full
long-horizon task, which is precisely what makes value learning struggle in the long-horizon setting.
Evaluation setting: policy steering. Our downstream evaluation setting is to use a learned Q-function
to steer robot behavior when executing policy 𝜋base [26]. Ideally, a generalist Q-function should be usable
for a new task specified by 𝑙, either zero-shot or after minimal fine-tuning to the robot platform, without
training a value function from scratch [13]. Given the current state s𝑡and language instruction 𝑙, the base
policy proposes 𝑁candidate action chunks. The Q-function scores each chunk, and the robot executes
the highest-scoring one, analogous to Equation 2. Our problem in this paper is to train a generalist
Q-function initialization capable of steering policies across several long-horizon tasks.
3. SeeQ: Subtask-Elicited Q-Functions for Long-Horizon Manipulation
Our aim in this work is to train generalist value functions for long-horizon tasks. This requires addressing
two challenges: 1) developing a value learning recipe that is effective over long horizons and 2) ensuring
that this recipe can convert generalist VLMs into effective value functions. In this section, we will develop
an approach that addresses both of these challenges.
The central challenge in training Q-functions for long-horizon robotic manipulation is the horizon itself.
Standard Q-functions estimate expected success over the entire task, which becomes increasingly difficult
as the number of actions grows. Indeed, Park et al. [28] empirically show that Q-estimation error can
increase nearly exponentially with horizon in offline RL. The offline setting compounds this problem
because datasets provide limited coverage of the many state-action configurations encountered along
long trajectories. Thus, before training Q-functions on vision-language model (VLM) backbones, we ask
how to reformulate value learning to avoid directly modeling sparse success over the full task horizon.
Key idea: Learning Q-values at the subtask level. A natural way to shorten the value-learning horizon
is to exploit the local structure of manipulation rollouts, especially when VLMs backbones are used for
value learning. If a task decomposes into subtask spans that each pursue a local objective, such as an
intermediate stage in a multi-stage manipulation task or a new attempt within a precision-heavy stage,
4


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
MULTI-VIEW RGB
LANGUAGE PROMPT
ACTION CHUNK
base
left wrist
right wrist
T A S K
Hang the shirt.
a1
a2
…
PRETRAINED VLM BACKBONE
BOS
CLS
S U B T A S K Insert hanger into right sleeve.
Linear Head
Qθ(s, a, l, l̃)
KEYS
image
task
subtask
actions
CLS
QUERIES
Legend
attends
does not attend
causal within subtask
Figure 2: Overview of the SeeQ value-function architecture. The model first rolls out the active subtask at state s in text
using a next-token prediction loss, and then predicts a scalar value 𝑄𝜃(s, a, 𝑙, ˜𝑙) for the input state-action pair conditioned on
the task instruction and the subtask. Ground-truth subtask annotations supervise the rollout during training; at inference the
model conditions on its own predicted subtask.
the value function can evaluate progress toward the immediate objective rather than predict eventual
task success. Classical hierarchical RL uses a related decomposition [25, 31], but typically relies on
hand-specified subgoals and a high-level policy that selects among them. In our setting, subtasks are
expressed in language, allowing a single language-conditioned Q-function to infer the active subtask and
evaluate actions against it.
Following Section 2, we assume that each trajectory 𝜏∈𝒟pre is paired with a task instruction 𝑙and
segmented into subtask spans1, where ˜𝑙𝑡denotes the active subtask at s𝑡. We define a sparse binary
reward for each span, with 𝑟˜𝑙𝑡(s𝑡) = 1 when the active subtask terminates and 0 otherwise, following
prior work [18]. Rather than learning a Q-function for the full task 𝑙, SeeQ predicts the value of the
input action chunk for the active subtask ˜𝑙𝑡, assuming policy 𝜇is followed thereafter:
𝑄𝜇(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, ˜𝑙𝑡) = E𝜇
[︃∞
∑︁
𝑗=0
𝛾𝑗· 𝑟˜𝑙𝑡(s𝑡+𝑗)⃒⃒⃒s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1
]︃
.
(3)
Explicitly decoding the subtask. Since the ground-truth subtask ˜𝑙𝑡is not available at inference time,
the Q-function must infer it from the observation and the task instruction. SeeQ explicitly runs this
inference: the model first autoregressively decodes the active subtask in text, ˆ𝑙𝑡∼𝑝𝜃(· | s𝑡, 𝑙), and then
predicts the Q-value conditioned on it, 𝑄𝜃(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, 𝑙, ˆ𝑙𝑡). The subtask prediction is supervised with a
next-token prediction loss on the ground-truth annotation ˜𝑙𝑡= ( ˜𝑤𝑡,1, . . . , ˜𝑤𝑡,𝑀),
ℒsubtask(𝜃) = −E𝜏∼𝒟pre, 𝑡
[︃
1
𝑀
𝑀
∑︁
𝑚=1
log 𝑝𝜃( ˜𝑤𝑡,𝑚| ˜𝑤𝑡,<𝑚, s𝑡, 𝑙)
]︃
,
(4)
while the value head is conditioned on the ground-truth subtask during training. The TD target for
Equation 3 is constructed using a target network 𝑄¯𝜃:
𝑦𝑡=
𝐻−1
∑︁
𝑗=0
𝛾𝑗𝑟˜𝑙𝑡(s𝑡+𝑗) + 𝛾𝐻(1 −𝐼𝑡) · 𝑄¯𝜃
(︁
s𝑡+𝐻, a′
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1, 𝑙, ˜𝑙𝑡+𝐻
)︁
,
(5)
where a′
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1 is the backup action chunk and 𝐼𝑡indicates a subtask boundary in 𝑡: 𝑡+ 𝐻−1. Note
that we do not bootstrap across subtask boundaries as it defeats the purpose of subtask-level Q-functions;
1Several robot datasets include subtask annotations. When unavailable, they can be generated by prompting VLMs.
5


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
the backup therefore applies only when 𝐼𝑡= 0. The overall objective of SeeQ combines subtask-level TD
learning in SeeQ:
ℒSeeQ(𝜃) = ℒTD(𝜃) + 𝜆subtaskℒsubtask(𝜃),
(6)
where ℒTD regresses 𝑄𝜃to 𝑦𝑡as in Equation 1 and 𝜆subtask controls the strength of the next token
prediction loss. In principle, the active subtask need not be explicitly decoded: the Q-function could
condition only on the full-task instruction while being trained to match the value of the active subtask,
relying on its hidden representations to infer that subtask implicitly. However, explicitly decoding the
active subtask at inference time and conditioning value prediction is expected to encourage consistency
between the inferred subtask and its value. This is particularly important near subtask boundaries, where
similar image observations may correspond to different subtasks and implicit inference can produce noisy
values that incorrectly steer the policy. SeeQ therefore decodes the active subtask before predicting its
value (Figure 2). We visualize value predictions with and without explicit subtask decoding in Figure 7.
Implementation with a VLM backbone. We parameterize 𝑄𝜃with a PaliGemma VLM [5] and pretrain
it on broad robot data before fine-tuning on the target task. The VLM provides vision-language priors for
recognizing task progress and interpreting instructions, while regularizing these input spaces during
downstream fine-tuning. Because it lacks a prior over robot actions, robot pretraining additionally exposes
the model to diverse action chunks across tasks and embodiments, with the aim of regularizing its action
conditioning and reducing memorization. We discuss implementation details in Appendix A.1.4.
While the architecture in SeeQ can be utilized with any value learning objective, we use the TD-BoN
objective as defined in Equation 2: we sample candidate action chunks from 𝜋base and select the one
with the highest value under 𝑄¯𝜃as the target action chunk that appears within the Bellman backup. As
discussed in Section 2, this aligns the TD backup with the best-of-𝑁steering procedure used at inference
time. We examine value overestimation in Appendix A.1.3.
Test-time inference. Given a new state s𝑡and task 𝑙, SeeQ first rolls out the active subtask ˆ𝑙𝑡in text,
and then scores each candidate action chunk proposed by 𝜋base with 𝑄𝜃(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, 𝑙, ˆ𝑙𝑡). We use this
Q-value for best-of-𝑁policy steering (as discussed in Section 2).
4. Experiments
Implementation setup. We train SeeQ in two stages. We first pretrain a PaliGemma-based Q-function
on RoboCOIN [33], restricted to its bimanual embodiments, which yields 131 tasks and approximately
40k episodes. We then finetune the resulting generalist Q-function on data from each target task; the
amount of downstream data differs across tasks. We use 𝜋0.5 [14] as our base policy and finetune it
directly on the same target-task data. Across methods, we use 𝑁= 8 candidate action chunks for both
TD-BoN backups during training and best-of-𝑁policy steering at inference. We average the subtask
prediction loss over subtask tokens and assign it a weight of 𝜆subtask = 0.1.
Tasks. We evaluate on four real-world, long-horizon bimanual manipulation tasks at 60 Hz (Figure 3)
that test the ability of the Q-function trained via SeeQ to steer a robot policy through long, multistage
tasks that often demand precise low-level behavior. We often observe that a Q-function is needed to select
the best action in states requiring precision and to prevent errors from compounding over longer rollouts.
1. shirt-hang [11] (1–2 min; 386 episodes): remove a hanger from a rod, insert it into both sleeves of
a t-shirt, and hang the shirt back on the rod. The task demands bimanual coordination and precise
positioning to guide the hanger into each sleeve.
6


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
(a) shirt-hang
(b) lid-sealing
(c) grocery-packing
(d) lego-disassembly
Figure 3: Our bimanual real-robot evaluation tasks. Top-camera snapshots from dataset demonstrations of the four
real-world tasks. Three tasks a set up on a bimanual xArm-7 platform with 7-DoF xArms, and one uses a bimanual YAM platform.
See Appendix A.1.5 for task definitions and evaluation protocols.
2. lid-sealing [11] (1–2 min; 447 episodes): pick up the lid of a food-storage container, place it on the
container, and close all four latching flaps. The task demands precise alignment of the lid and rim for
proper sealing.
3. grocery-packing [2] (1–3,min; 473 episodes): pack deformable grocery items of varying shapes and
sizes into boxes. The task demands grasping a diverse set of objects; following instructions, which,
unlike in the two tasks above, vary across episodes in both the set of objects and the boxes they are
assigned to; and bimanual coordination, as an object must be handed from one arm to the other when
it lies on the side opposite its target box.
4. lego-disassembly (1–2 min; 97 training episodes): separate assembled Lego blocks of different colors
and place each block into the tray of the matching color. Similar to grocery-packing, the instruction
varies across episodes, since the pairing of block colors and tray colors changes. The task demands
reasoning about the orientation in which to hold the blocks and how to pull them apart, as well as
bimanual coordination for handoffs.
Research questions. Our experiments are designed to answer the following questions:
Q1. Can SeeQ steer the base policy to improve its robustness and performance?
Q2. What kinds of training data improve the quality of the Q-function learned via SeeQ?
Q3. How does SeeQ compare to standard Monte-Carlo/TD-trained value functions at the task level and
SARSA-trained value functions at the subtask level?
Q4. How critical is generalist pre-training to the success of SeeQ?
Q5. How much does subtask instruction supervision contribute to the efficacy of SeeQ, and how
important is decoding the predicted subtask at test time?
We will also provide several diagnostic visualizations to understand the behavior of SeeQ.
4.1. Main Results: Policy Steering on Real-World Long-Horizon Tasks
Task
Data
Base
SeeQ
shirt-hang
RaC
10/24
22/24
lid-sealing
RaC
10/24
15/24
grocery-packing
Teleop
9/24
17/24
lego-disassembly
Teleop
5/24
10/24
Table 1: Policy steering results. Success rates over 24
trials for the base policy and for the same policy steered
by SeeQ with best-of-𝑁action selection (𝑁= 8).
We report success rates for the base policy and the same
policy steered by a SeeQ Q-function in Table 1, select-
ing among 𝑁= 8 action chunks sampled at each step.
We study policy steering under two groups of settings,
with datasets that vary in coverage and suboptimality.
RaC [11] data. For shirt-hang and lid-sealing, data is
collected with RaC [11]: the policy runs autonomously
until it begins to make a mistake, at which point a
human teleoperator takes control to demonstrate cor-
rections and recoveries. These trajectories therefore combine suboptimal policy actions with expert
7


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
1
2
3
4
5
0
0.5
1
Subtask
value
SeeQ
SARSA
0
200
400
600
800
Step
0
0.5
1
Task
value
TD-BoN
MC
(a)
pour-tea · RoboCOIN
Predicted subtask · SeeQ and SARSA
Pick up the teacup
with the right gripper
Place the teacup in
the center of view
with the right gripper
Pick up the teapot
with the left gripper
Pour tea into the
teacup with the left
gripper
Place the down the
teapot with the left
gripper
1
2
3
4
5
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
Step
0
0.5
1
Value
SeeQ
(b)
lid-sealing
Predicted subtask · SeeQ
Grasp the lid
Place the lid onto the
bowl
Close the first flap
pair
Close the first flap
pair
Rotate the bowl by 90
degrees
1
2
3
4
5
0
1000
2000
3000
Step
0
0.5
1
Value
SeeQ
(c)
grocery-packing
Predicted subtask · SeeQ
Pack Altoids container
into the medium box.
Pack Sponge into the
medium box.
Pack Pringles chip bag
into the large box.
Pack Pringles chip bag
into the large box.
Pack Pink tumbler into
the large box.
Figure 4: Qualitative value predictions for our approach compared to basline approaches. Panels (b) and (c) both show
the values of selected best-of-𝑁action chunks in a SeeQ evaluation. (a) All critics evaluate recorded dataset action chunks. On
a held-out RoboCOIN trajectory, task-level TD provides almost no signal for most of the trajectory, consistent with compounding
bootstrapping errors, while MC predictions are noisy, potentially reflecting spurious correlations. (b) lid-sealing: The value
drops at frame 3 after a failed flap closure, followed by recovery at frame 4. (c) grocery-packing: Value drops at frames 1
and 3 correspond to failed grasps, followed by recovery in both cases; BC often struggles repeatedly with objects such as the
Pringles bag. The final subtask switch appears delayed because subtask decoding runs less frequently than action replanning.
Solid curves denote SeeQ and TD-BoN; dashed curves denote SARSA and MC. Red vertical dashed lines mark SeeQ-predicted
subtask switches and are omitted from the task-level value plot.
8


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
human interventions. When training both the policy and the Q-function on this data, SeeQ raises the
success rate of shirt-hang from 10/24 to 22/24 and on lid-sealing from 10/24 to 15/24.
Teleoperation data. For grocery-packing and lego-disassembly, downstream data consists solely of
expert demonstrations, collected via human teleoperation. On grocery-packing, SeeQ improves the
success rate of the base policy from 9/24 to 17/24, indicating that steering remains beneficial with expert
demonstrations alone. The lego-disassembly dataset is particularly limited: it contains only 97 episodes,
all starting from the same block configuration (shape and orientation), resulting in narrow state-space
coverage. Even in this setting, SeeQ improves the policy success rate from 5/24 to 10/24.
4.2. Comparing SeeQ to Other Value Learning Objectives
Next, we compare SeeQ against baseline and prior approaches for fitting value functions: task-level
Monte Carlo return fitting, subtask-level SARSA, and task-level TD learning. We evaluate these methods
on shirt-hang and grocery-packing. All methods use the same PaliGemma backbone, are pretrained
on RoboCOIN, and are finetuned on identical task-specific data. They differ only in the return they
predict, the action used for bootstrapping, and whether they explicitly predict the active subtask. The
task-level methods use a discount factor of 0.9995, compared with 0.999 for the subtask-level methods,
to accommodate the longer return horizon.
Objective
shirt-hang grocery-packing
Base policy
10/24
9/24
Task-level MC
9/24
10/24
Task-level TD
12/24
9/24
Subtask-level SARSA
13/24
10/24
SeeQ (Ours)
22/24
17/24
Table 2: Comparison of value-learning objec-
tives. Success rates on shirt-hang and grocery-
packing. Fitting values of the data collection policy
underperforms SeeQ, while task-level MC and TD
offer little improvement over the base policy.
Task-level MC. Prior work learns state-based value functions
by regressing to observed MC returns [9, 13]. We apply this
strategy to an action-value function to test whether direct
return regression suffices for policy steering, compared with
SeeQ’s subtask-based TD approach. This baseline conditions
on the full-task instruction 𝑙and fits the observed discounted
return to task completion, as described in Section 2. Con-
cretely, it uses the squared-error loss in Equation 1 with
𝑦𝑙
𝑡replaced by 𝐺𝑙
𝑡= ∑︀𝑇−𝑡
𝑗=0 𝛾𝑗𝑟𝑙(s𝑡+𝑗), where 𝑇is the final
timestep of the recorded trajectory. We also tried alternative
losses, including cross-entropy [8], in preliminary experi-
ments but found no noticeable difference in performance.
The targets are computed entirely from the dataset, with no bootstrapping or target network. This
baseline neither predicts nor conditions on a subtask and uses no next-token prediction loss.
Subtask-level SARSA. This baseline retains SeeQ’s subtask rewards, boundary termination, autoregres-
sive subtask conditioning, and next-token loss. It replaces the backup action in Equation 5 with the
next action chunk recorded in the dataset, a′
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1 = a𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1, following the SARSA update in
Equation 1. The value loss therefore evaluates continuation under the dataset’s behavior policy, without
maximizing over policy candidates as in Equation 2. Comparing this baseline with SeeQ tests whether
the best-of-𝑁backup improves steering beyond subtask-level policy evaluation.
Task-level TD learning. This baseline tests whether a best-of-𝑁TD objective is effective without the
subtask formulation. It minimizes the TD loss in Equation 1 using the full-task reward 𝑟𝑙and the best-of-𝑁
backup in Equation 2. Like task-level MC, it conditions only on 𝑙and uses neither subtask prediction
nor next-token loss. Its backups continue across intermediate subtask boundaries and terminate only at
the end of the task. All TD variants use multi-step targets that accumulate discounted rewards over the
backup interval.
9


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Results. Table 2 shows that SeeQ outperforms all evaluated baselines on both tasks. Task-level MC and
TD learning offer little improvement over the base policy, while subtask-level SARSA provides a modest
gain on shirt-hang and a one-trial gain on grocery-packing. These results suggest that both the subtask
formulation and the best-of-𝑁backup contribute to effective policy steering, with gains on both mixed
policy and human intervention data and purely expert demonstrations.
4.3. Importance of Pretraining and VLM Initialization for SeeQ
To quantify the benefits of initializing SeeQ from a general VLM backbone and pretraining on broad
robot data, we evaluate two baselines. First, we compare against a task-specific value function trained
on target-task data alone. For a fair comparison, this baseline uses the same TD-learning objective and
best-of-𝑁policy extraction with the same base policy. It also predicts the active subtask as a categorical
token and conditions its value prediction on this token. Its architecture consists of a pretrained ResNet-50
image encoder followed by an MLP, following the design in Kumar et al. [18]. Each camera’s feature map
is pooled using learned spatial weights and projected to an embedding. The value MLP combines these
camera embeddings with the flattened action chunk and a learned subtask embedding. Next, we evaluate
SeeQ without robot data pretraining. This ablation retains SeeQ’s architecture and training objective
but skips the robot data pretraining stage, finetuning the pretrained PaliGemma backbone directly on the
target task, shirt-hang. We observe in Table 3 that with the same VLM backbone and SeeQ objective,
general robot data pretraining raises success from 8/24 to 22/24. In addition, SeeQ outperforms a
task-specific value function, indicating that both pretraining and VLM initialization are critical.
Value function
Robot pretraining
VLM initialization
Success rate
Base policy
—
—
10/24
Task-specific (ResNet-50 + MLP, TD-BoN)
✗
✗
16/24
SeeQ minus pretraining
✗
✓
8/24
SeeQ (Ours)
✓
✓
22/24
Table 3: Importance of pretraining and VLM initializations for SeeQ, evaluated on shirt-hang. Columns indicate whether
the value function uses robot data pretraining and VLM initialization. Observe that both robot data pretraining and base VLM
initialization are important for the success of SeeQ.
We hypothesize that SeeQ without robot pretraining performs poorly because robot actions come from a
distribution unseen during pretraining of the VLM backbone. Direct target-task finetuning may therefore
overfit to image features, while pretraining on diverse robot data can help alleviate this issue. Figure 5(b)
compares image-gradient norms with and without robot pretraining to examine this hypothesis and
provides evidence that supports this hypothesis: note that the sensitivity of the Q-function to visual
observations is higher without pretraining2.
4.4. Ablation Study: Effect of Predicting Subtasks and Conditioning on Them
Next, we assess the importance of predicting the active subtask and conditioning value estimation on it
for shirt-hang. In the first variant, we remove subtask prediction and conditioning, training the model
with the subtask-level TD loss alone. In the second variant, we retain the subtask prediction loss but do
not condition the value head on the subtask. The subtask is therefore not decoded at inference time and
is represented only implicitly in the model’s activations.
2The sensitivity to both images and actions is higher for the ResNet-50 baseline, implying that it might have spuriously fit to
both action and state features, while no robot pretraining with SeeQ suppresses sensitivity to actions specifically.
10


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Variant
Success rate
Base policy
10/24
Subtask-level TD
No subtask prediction, no subtask conditioning
8/24
Subtask-level TD
Subtask prediction, no subtask conditioning
15/24
SeeQ (Ours)
22/24
Table 4: Ablation of subtask elicitation on shirt-hang. Subtask pre-
diction supervision improves success, with further gains from explicitly
conditioning value estimation on the predicted subtask.
As shown in Table 4, removing the sub-
task prediction loss causes the steered policy
to underperform the base policy (8/24 vs.
10/24). Adding the prediction loss improves
success to 15/24, even without condition-
ing value predictions on the predicted sub-
task. Explicitly decoding the subtask and
conditioning value estimation on it further
improves success to 22/24. Figure 7 illus-
trates how subtask conditioning aligns value
resets with predicted subtask changes.
4.5. Diagnostic Visualization: Qualitative Analysis of Value-Function Landscapes
VLM pretraining provides regularization in the vision-language space. We hypothesize that pretraining on
diverse robot data helps the critic learn action conditioning while reducing overfitting to image features
during target-task finetuning. To examine this hypothesis, we compare SeeQ, SeeQ without robot
pretraining, and the task-specific ResNet-50 critic on six complete held-out shirt-hang trajectories. All
three critics use subtask-level returns and condition on their own predicted subtask, decoded at every
frame. At each frame, they score the same eight cached 𝜋0.5 action chunks, and both gradients are
evaluated at that critic’s highest-valued candidate. The selected action can differ across critics.
Figure 5 compares local sensitivity to actions and images. Panel (a) shows ‖∇a𝑄‖2 in normalized 60 × 14
action coordinates. Panel (b) shows ‖∇𝐼𝑄‖2, with 𝐼concatenating all three 224×224 RGB camera inputs
in the network’s [−1, 1] coordinates. Both histograms pool all 12,582 frames.
Results. We observe that SeeQ attains a median image-gradient norm of 0.093, compared with 0.323
without robot pretraining and 0.494 for ResNet-50. The 3.5× reduction relative to direct VLM finetuning
is consistent with our hypothesis that robot pretraining reduces sensitivity to image features. Its median
action-gradient norm is 0.093, compared with 0.673 for ResNet-50 (7.2× lower). However, the no-
pretraining critic has an even smaller action-gradient median of 0.058 despite worse steering performance
(8/24), suggesting that it may be insufficiently discriminative between candidate actions and may not
use the action input meaningfully.
5. Related Work
Recent robot learning has increasingly followed the recipe of scaling data and model capacity, with
substantial success [14, 15, 27, 38]. However, pure imitation learning struggles to learn from diverse,
potentially suboptimal data [17] and remains brittle on long-horizon tasks, where errors compound
over time [4, 29]. To address these limitations, prior work has explored training value functions with
RL [6, 18] and using them to guide [26] or improve policies [24]. However, these methods typically
instantiate value functions with small networks and use little pre-training data [6, 18, 26, 34], if any [24].
Thus, the value functions do not inherit the broad pre-training that makes generalist policies useful, and
hence, require task-specific demonstrations before they can be deployed.
A recent line of work has sought to scale value-function learning in robotics in the same spirit as generalist
imitation learning [7, 16, 19, 23, 30]. For example, Springenberg et al. [30] and Chebotar et al. [7]
train large transformer backbones from scratch with temporal-difference (TD) learning, but do not
11


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
101
‖∇aQ‖2 (log scale)
0
15
30
45
Frames per bin (%)
(a) Action-gradient norms
SeeQ
No pretraining
ResNet-50
10−2
10−1
100
101
102
‖∇IQ‖2 (log scale)
0
5
10
15
Frames per bin (%)
(b) Image-gradient norms
SeeQ
No pretraining
ResNet-50
Figure 5: Action and image sensitivity on six complete held-out shirt-hang trajectories. (a) Action-gradient norms.
(b) Joint image-gradient norms across three cameras. All three critics use the same 12,582 frames and eight cached policy
candidates; gradients are evaluated at each critic’s selected candidate. No pretraining denotes SeeQ finetuned directly from
PaliGemma. Bar heights are percentages of frames in shared logarithmically spaced bins; dashed lines denote medians.
leverage modern large-scale vision-language pretraining. In contrast, Lee et al. [19] fine-tune a Qwen-
3-VL model [3] on broad robot data to obtain a VLM-scale reward model. Related efforts learn purely
state-based value or progress estimates: WCM [9] regresses Monte Carlo (MC) returns, RynnValue [12]
predicts observed time-to-completion, and Robometer [22] combines frame-level progress and success
supervision with trajectory preferences. These predictions are trained using trajectory-derived targets
rather than TD backups. Such approaches address the challenge of fitting value or reward models at
large parametric scale, but long-horizon value learning remains difficult. Direct supervision with MC
returns [9, 16] or observed progress avoids TD credit assignment, but ties the targets to the behaviors
and coverage of the training data. Conversely, methods that rely on TD learning [32] must propagate
sparse success signals over long horizons. Our work addresses this tradeoff by training an action-value
function with TD over shorter-horizon subtasks, supporting test-time steering against the learned critic.
We further show that explicitly predicting the subtask in text improves value estimation, as language can
supervise intermediate features for assessing the active subtask at a given state.
Prior work has also explored similar styles of automatic subtask decomposition, but primarily for policy
learning rather than value learning [1, 14, 36]. For example, [14] train a high-level VLM to predict
per-step subtask instructions for a low-level controller, while [36] discover visual subgoals from phase
shifts in a pretrained representation and use them to condition imitation policies and shape rewards. In
contrast, we use subtask decomposition to define the prediction problem for a generalist Q-function: the
model infers the current subtask and estimates the value of an action for completing that subtask at test
time, without requiring subtask annotations or any additional subtask information at deployment. This
makes our approach effective yet free of test-time assumptions.
6. Discussion, Conclusion, and Future Work
We presented SeeQ, an approach for training generalist Q-functions that steer robot policies on long-
horizon tasks. By predicting values for the active subtask, SeeQ shortens the credit-assignment horizon
while retaining TD learning and best-of-𝑁backups for policy improvement. Explicitly predicting the
12


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
subtask in language allows the value function to use this structure without requiring subtask annotations
at deployment. Across four real-world bimanual manipulation tasks, SeeQ raises the average success rate
from 35.4% to 66.7% (1.88×), with improvements on various data compositions. Our ablations highlight
the importance of robot data pretraining, the best-of-𝑁backup, and explicit subtask conditioning. These
findings suggest that choosing an appropriate prediction horizon and using language to structure value
estimation are useful ingredients for generalist value learning.
Limitations and future work. SeeQ relies on subtask annotations during training, but decomposing
manipulation trajectories into discrete spans can be ambiguous, particularly during recoveries or near
subtask boundaries. Incorporating past frames and using finer-grained annotations may partly mitigate
this ambiguity, but the appropriate subtask granularity remains task-dependent. At deployment, errors
in subtask prediction can cause the critic to evaluate actions against an incorrect objective. Learning
decompositions that are useful for value estimation and accounting for uncertainty over the active subtask
are promising directions for addressing this limitation. Moreover, optimizing the value of the current
subtask favors local progress, which need not align with the overall task. For example, a robot may
knock over another object while packing the current one, making subsequent subtasks harder without
reducing progress on the active subtask. Combining subtask-level values with estimates of downstream
consequences could address this tradeoff while preserving the benefits of shorter-horizon learning.
Finally, our evaluation uses the Q-function to select among action chunks proposed by a fixed base policy,
so steering is limited by the quality and diversity of these candidates. Producing more exploratory base
policies and using the learned Q-function to directly improve the policy is a natural next step. Our
experiments also finetune the generalist value function on each target task; evaluating transfer with less
downstream data, or without task-specific finetuning, would further clarify the scope of its generalization.
Acknowledgements
We thank Yizhou Li for her help with subtask annotation of the existing lid-sealing RaC data and data
collection for the lego-disassembly task. We thank Kshitiz and Robyn Wu for support with the bimanual
grocery-packing setup and data from their forthcoming work [2]. We thank Niharika Pant and Naveen
Enock for help with robot setups. We thank Lehong Wu, Anthony Liang, Abhishek Gupta, Aykut Onol,
and Kushal Arora for informative discussions and feedback on an earlier version of this work. We thank
members of the CMU AIRe lab for their support.
This work is primarily supported by a Toyota Research Institute U3.0 award. We also acknowledge
support from the Office of Naval Research under N00014-24-12206 and a Google TPU Builders program
gift. We thank the TPU research cloud (TRC) program for their support with Google TPU resources that
made this work possible and Gemini Academic Grants program for providing Gemini credits.
References
[1] Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea
Finn, Chuyuan Fu, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, et al. Do as i can, not as i say:
Grounding language in robotic affordances. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.01691, 2022.
[2] Anonymous. Building exploratory vision-language-action models via midtraining, 2026. Manuscript
in preparation.
13


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
[3] Shuai Bai, Yuxuan Cai, Ruizhe Chen, Keqin Chen, Xionghui Chen, Zesen Cheng, Lianghao Deng, Wei
Ding, Chang Gao, Chunjiang Ge, et al. Qwen3-vl technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.21631,
2025.
[4] Suneel Belkhale, Yuchen Cui, and Dorsa Sadigh. Hydra: Hybrid robot actions for imitation learning.
In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2113–2133. PMLR, 2023.
[5] Lucas Beyer, Andreas Steiner, André Susano Pinto, Alexander Kolesnikov, Xiao Wang, Daniel Salz,
Maxim Neumann, Ibrahim Alabdulmohsin, Michael Tschannen, Emanuele Bugliarello, Thomas
Unterthiner, Daniel Keysers, Skanda Koppula, Fangyu Liu, Adam Grycner, Alexey Gritsenko, Neil
Houlsby, Manoj Kumar, Keran Rong, Julian Eisenschlos, Rishabh Kabra, Matthias Bauer, Matko
Bošnjak, Xi Chen, Matthias Minderer, Paul Voigtlaender, Ioana Bica, Ivana Balazevic, Joan Puigcerver,
Pinelopi Papalampidi, Olivier Henaff, Xi Xiong, Radu Soricut, Jeremiah Harmsen, and Xiaohua Zhai.
Paligemma: A versatile 3b vlm for transfer, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.07726.
[6] Chethan Bhateja, Derek Guo, Dibya Ghosh, Anikait Singh, Manan Tomar, Quan Vuong, Yevgen
Chebotar, Sergey Levine, and Aviral Kumar. Robotic offline RL from internet videos via value-
function pre-training. In NeurIPS 2023 Foundation Models for Decision Making Workshop, 2023.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=Rfc9zK6PNO.
[7] Yevgen Chebotar, Quan Vuong, Karol Hausman, Fei Xia, Yao Lu, Alex Irpan, Aviral Kumar, Tianhe
Yu, Alexander Herzog, Karl Pertsch, et al. Q-transformer: Scalable offline reinforcement learning
via autoregressive q-functions. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 3909–3928. PMLR, 2023.
[8] Jesse Farebrother, Jordi Orbay, Quan Vuong, Adrien Ali Taïga, Yevgen Chebotar, Ted Xiao, Alex
Irpan, Sergey Levine, Pablo Samuel Castro, Aleksandra Faust, et al. Stop regressing: Training value
functions via classification for scalable deep rl. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.03950, 2024.
[9] Senyu Fei, Xiaopeng Yu, Siyin Wang, Xianzhong Zhao, Jingjing Gong, and Xipeng Qiu. WCM: A
world critic model for vision-language-action reinforcement learning, 2026. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2607.29613.
[10] Yuchun Feng, Jinliang Zheng, Zhihao Wang, Dongxiu Liu, Jianxiong Li, Jiangmiao Pang, Tai Wang,
and Xianyuan Zhan. Demystifying action space design for robotic manipulation policies, 2026.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.23408.
[11] Zheyuan Hu, Robyn Wu, Naveen Enock, Jasmine Li, Riya Kadakia, Zackory Erickson, and Aviral
Kumar. Rac: Robot learning for long-horizon tasks by scaling recovery and correction, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.07953.
[12] Dongchi Huang, Hongyin Zhang, Bohan Hou, Siteng Huang, Zhian Su, Hang Guo, Tong Lu,
Zhaofeng Xu, Jiahao Tang, Jianfei Yang, Donglin Wang, Peixi Peng, Mingxiu Chen, Deli Zhao, and
Xin Li. RynnValue: Scaling robotic value foundation models with temporal distance, 2026. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.09853.
[13] Physical Intelligence, Ali Amin, Raichelle Aniceto, Ashwin Balakrishna, Kevin Black, Ken Conley,
Grace Connors, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Jared DiCarlo, Danny Driess, Michael Equi,
Adnan Esmail, Yunhao Fang, Chelsea Finn, Catherine Glossop, Thomas Godden, Ivan Goryachev,
Lachy Groom, Hunter Hancock, Karol Hausman, Gashon Hussein, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak,
14


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Rowan Jen, Tim Jones, Ben Katz, Liyiming Ke, Chandra Kuchi, Marinda Lamb, Devin LeBlanc,
Sergey Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Yao Lu, Vishnu Mano, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch,
Allen Z. Ren, Charvi Sharma, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Laura Smith, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Kyle
Stachowicz, Will Stoeckle, Alex Swerdlow, James Tanner, Marcel Torne, Quan Vuong, Anna Walling,
Haohuan Wang, Blake Williams, Sukwon Yoo, Lili Yu, Ury Zhilinsky, and Zhiyuan Zhou. 𝜋*
0.6: a vla
that learns from experience, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.14759.
[14] Physical Intelligence, Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny
Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Manuel Y. Galliker, Dibya
Ghosh, Lachy Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak, Tim Jones, Liyiming
Ke, Devin LeBlanc, Sergey Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch,
Allen Z. Ren, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Laura Smith, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Kyle Stachowicz,
James Tanner, Quan Vuong, Homer Walke, Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, Lili Yu, and Ury
Zhilinsky.
𝜋0.5: a vision-language-action model with open-world generalization, 2025.
URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.16054.
[15] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair,
Rafael Rafailov, Ethan P Foster, Pannag R Sanketi, Quan Vuong, et al. Openvla: An open-source
vision-language-action model. In 8th Annual Conference on Robot Learning, 2024.
[16] Moo Jin Kim, Yihuai Gao, Tsung-Yi Lin, Yen-Chen Lin, Yunhao Ge, Grace Lam, Percy Liang, Shuran
Song, Ming-Yu Liu, Chelsea Finn, and Jinwei Gu.
Cosmos policy: Fine-tuning video models
for visuomotor control and planning. In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2026. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=wPEIStHxYH.
[17] Aviral Kumar, Joey Hong, Anikait Singh, and Sergey Levine. Should i run offline reinforcement
learning or behavioral cloning? In International conference on learning representations, 2022.
[18] Aviral Kumar, Anikait Singh, Frederik Ebert, Mitsuhiko Nakamoto, Yanlai Yang, Chelsea Finn, and
Sergey Levine. Pre-training for robots: Offline rl enables learning new tasks from a handful of trials.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.05178, 2022.
[19] Tony Lee, Andrew Wagenmaker, Karl Pertsch, Percy Liang, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn.
Roboreward: General-purpose vision-language reward models for robotics, 2026. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2601.00675.
[20] Qiyang Li, Zhiyuan Zhou, and Sergey Levine. Reinforcement learning with action chunking. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.
07969.
[21] Shuang Li, Yihuai Gao, Dorsa Sadigh, and Shuran Song. Unified video action model, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00200.
[22] Anthony Liang, Yigit Korkmaz, Jiahui Zhang, Minyoung Hwang, Abrar Anwar, Sidhant Kaushik,
Aditya Shah, Alex S. Huang, Luke Zettlemoyer, Dieter Fox, Yu Xiang, Anqi Li, Andreea Bobu,
Abhishek Gupta, Stephen Tu, Erdem Biyik, and Jesse Zhang. Robometer: Scaling general-purpose
robotic reward models via trajectory comparisons. In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2026. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.02115.
15


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
[23] Yecheng Jason Ma, Shagun Sodhani, Dinesh Jayaraman, Osbert Bastani, Vikash Kumar, and Amy
Zhang. Vip: Towards universal visual reward and representation via value-implicit pre-training. In
The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[24] Max Sobol Mark, Tian Gao, Georgia Gabriela Sampaio, Mohan Kumar Srirama, Archit Sharma,
Chelsea Finn, and Aviral Kumar. Policy-agnostic rl: Offline rl and online rl fine-tuning of any class
and backbone. In ICLR 2025 Workshop on Foundation Models in the Wild, 2025.
[25] Ofir Nachum, Shixiang Shane Gu, Honglak Lee, and Sergey Levine. Data-efficient hierarchical
reinforcement learning. Advances in neural information processing systems, 31, 2018.
[26] Mitsuhiko Nakamoto, Oier Mees, Aviral Kumar, and Sergey Levine. Steering your generalists:
Improving robotic foundation models via value guidance. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages
4996–5013. PMLR, 2025.
[27] Abby O’Neill, Abdul Rehman, Abhiram Maddukuri, Abhishek Gupta, Abhishek Padalkar, Abraham
Lee, Acorn Pooley, Agrim Gupta, Ajay Mandlekar, Ajinkya Jain, et al. Open x-embodiment: Robotic
learning datasets and rt-x models: Open x-embodiment collaboration 0. In 2024 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 6892–6903. IEEE, 2024.
[28] Seohong Park, Kevin Frans, Deepinder Mann, Benjamin Eysenbach, Aviral Kumar, and Sergey
Levine. Horizon reduction makes rl scalable. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 38:
8350–8389, 2025.
[29] Stéphane Ross and Drew Bagnell. Efficient reductions for imitation learning. In Proceedings of
the thirteenth international conference on artificial intelligence and statistics, pages 661–668. JMLR
Workshop and Conference Proceedings, 2010.
[30] Jost Tobias Springenberg, Abbas Abdolmaleki, Jingwei Zhang, Oliver Groth, Michael Bloesch,
Thomas Lampe, Philemon Brakel, Sarah Maria Elisabeth Bechtle, Steven Kapturowski, Roland
Hafner, et al. Offline actor-critic reinforcement learning scales to large models. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, pages 46323–46350. PMLR, 2024.
[31] Martin Stolle and Doina Precup. Learning options in reinforcement learning. In International
Symposium on abstraction, reformulation, and approximation, pages 212–223. Springer, 2002.
[32] Yi Wang, Xinchen Li, Pengwei Xie, Pu Yang, Buqing Nie, Yunuo Cai, Qinglin Zhang, Chendi Qu,
Jeffrey Wu, Jianheng Song, Xinlin Ren, Jingshun Huang, Mingjie Pan, Siyuan Feng, Zhi Chen, and
Jianlan Luo. Learning while deploying: Fleet-scale reinforcement learning for generalist robot
policies, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.00416.
[33] Shihan Wu, Xuecheng Liu, Shaoxuan Xie, Pengwei Wang, Xinghang Li, Bowen Yang, Zhe Li, Kai Zhu,
Hongyu Wu, Yiheng Liu, Zhaoye Long, Runtian Xu, Yue Wang, Chong Liu, Dihan Wang, Ziqiang
Ni, Xiang Yang, You Liu, Ruoxuan Feng, Lei Zhang, Denghang Huang, Chenghao Jin, Anlan Yin,
Xinlong Wang, Zhenguo Sun, Junkai Zhao, Mengfei Du, Mingyu Cao, Xiansheng Chen, Hongyang
Cheng, Xiaojie Zhang, Yankai Fu, Ning Chen, Cheng Chi, Sixiang Chen, Huaihai Lyu, Xiaoshuai
Hao, Yequan Wang, Bo Lei, Dong Liu, Xi Yang, Yance Jiao, Tengfei Pan, Yunyan Zhang, Songjing
Wang, Ziqian Zhang, Xu Liu, Ji Zhang, Caowei Meng, Zhizheng Zhang, Jiyang Gao, Song Wang,
Xiaokun Leng, Zhiqiang Xie, Zhenzhen Zhou, Peng Huang, Wu Yang, Yandong Guo, Yichao Zhu,
16


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Suibing Zheng, Hao Cheng, Xinmin Ding, Yang Yue, Huanqian Wang, Chi Chen, Jingrui Pang,
YuXi Qian, Haoran Geng, Lianli Gao, Haiyuan Li, Bin Fang, Gao Huang, Yaodong Yang, Hao Dong,
He Wang, Hang Zhao, Yadong Mu, Di Hu, Hao Zhao, Tiejun Huang, Shanghang Zhang, Yonghua Lin,
Zhongyuan Wang, and Guocai Yao. Robocoin: An open-sourced bimanual robotic data collection
for integrated manipulation, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.17441.
[34] Jingyun Yang, Max Sobol Mark, Brandon Vu, Archit Sharma, Jeannette Bohg, and Chelsea Finn.
Robot fine-tuning made easy: Pre-training rewards and policies for autonomous real-world rein-
forcement learning. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
pages 4804–4811. IEEE, 2024.
[35] Tianyuan Yuan, Zibin Dong, Yicheng Liu, and Hang Zhao. Fast-WAM: Do world action models need
test-time future imagination?, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.16666.
[36] Zichen Zhang, Yunshuang Li, Osbert Bastani, Abhishek Gupta, Dinesh Jayaraman, Yecheng Jason
Ma, and Luca Weihs. Universal visual decomposer: Long-horizon manipulation made easy. In 2024
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 6973–6980. IEEE, 2024.
[37] Tony Z. Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual
manipulation with low-cost hardware, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.13705.
[38] Brianna Zitkovich, Tianhe Yu, Sichun Xu, Peng Xu, Ted Xiao, Fei Xia, Jialin Wu, Paul Wohlhart,
Stefan Welker, Ayzaan Wahid, et al. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge
to robotic control. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2165–2183. PMLR, 2023.
17


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
A. Appendices
A.1. Additional Implementation Details
A.1.1. Action Space and Normalization
Value-function pre-training and fine-tuning use a shared 14-dimensional bimanual end-effector (EEF)
action space. The base policies use the same representation except on lego-disassembly (YAM platform),
where the policy operates in joint space. For each of the two arms, an EEF action contains translational
deltas (∆𝑥, ∆𝑦, ∆𝑧), roll–pitch–yaw orientation deltas, and a gripper command, giving the layout
[︀
∆𝑥, ∆𝑦, ∆𝑧
⏟
 ⏞
 
left pos
, ∆𝑟, ∆𝑝, ∆𝑦
⏟
 ⏞
 
left rot
, 𝑔left, ∆𝑥, ∆𝑦, ∆𝑧
⏟
 ⏞
 
right pos
, ∆𝑟, ∆𝑝, ∆𝑦
⏟
 ⏞
 
right rot
, 𝑔right
]︀
.
We use the chunk-wise delta parameterization of [10]: every action in a chunk is expressed relative to
the current state rather than recursively relative to the previous predicted action, with orientation deltas
composed as relative rotations on the rpy slots. Deltas are applied to all non-gripper dimensions; the two
gripper channels are absolute. The proprioceptive state s𝑝
𝑡uses the same 14-D EEF layout.
For lego-disassembly, demonstrations are collected using a bimanual YAM station and recorded as six
joint-angle targets and a gripper command per arm, matching the joint-position interface used by our
teleoperation stack. The base policy is trained to predict joint-angle deltas relative to the current joint
configuration, with absolute gripper commands. To retain the EEF representation used during SeeQ
pre-training, we apply a computationally inexpensive forward-kinematics (FK) transform to the recorded
joint targets and current joint configuration, then express the resulting target poses as EEF deltas relative
to the current pose for critic training. At inference, the same conversion maps each joint-space policy
candidate into EEF space for critic scoring; the robot executes the selected candidate in joint space.
Both state and action chunks are normalized with quantile normalization: each dimension is mapped via
its 1st/99th percentiles, ˜𝑥= 2
𝑥−𝑞01
𝑞99−𝑞01 −1, and then clipped to [−1.25, 1.25]. The same normalize-then-clip
scheme is applied to states, action chunks and the action candidates used in the TD backup. Quantile
normalization and clipping are common to value-function pre-training, fine-tuning, and base-policy
training, with statistics computed in the representation used by each model. For lego-disassembly, we
undo the policy’s normalization and recover absolute joint targets before applying FK; the resulting EEF
deltas are then normalized and clipped using the critic’s statistics before scoring.
A.1.2. Handling Mixed Control Frequencies in the RoboCOIN Dataset
Our pre-training dataset, RoboCOIN, aggregates demonstrations collected at two different control rates:
part of the data is recorded at 30 fps and part at 50 fps. Rather than resampling the trajectories, the
dataloader places both rates on a common wall-clock timeline, so that a single discount factor, a single
TD horizon, and a single action-chunk length all correspond to the same real-time duration regardless of
the source rate. In effect, the per-frame discount is applied per unit of time rather than per frame, and
the 𝐻-step lookahead used to form the bootstrap target is expressed as a fixed time window (e.g. 1 s)
that spans proportionally more frames in the 50 fps data than in the 30 fps data.
This rate normalization is what keeps the value targets consistent across the two sources. The MC return
to the end of the active subtask, the 𝐻-step reward, and the termination flag are all computed on this
normalized timeline: the subtask-completion reward fires, and the transition is marked terminal, when
18


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Algorithm 1 Training SeeQ
Require: subtask-annotated dataset 𝒟; base policy 𝜋base; discount 𝛾; learning rate 𝜂; target EMA rate 𝜏;
chunk duration 𝑇(wall-clock time spanned by one action chunk); action horizon 𝐻= round(𝑓fps 𝑇)
(chunk length at the recording frame rate); reference control rate 𝑐= 150 Hz (Appendix A.1.2);
subtask-loss weight 𝜆subtask = 0.1; backup width 𝑁= 8
1: Initialize 𝜃from PaliGemma for pre-training, or from pretrained SeeQ for fine-tuning
2: Initialize target parameters ¯𝜃←𝜃
3: for each training step do
4:
Sample a minibatch ℬof annotated transitions (s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, 𝑟˜𝑙𝑡, s𝑡+𝐻, 𝑙, ˜𝑙𝑡, ˜𝑙𝑡+𝐻)
5:
For each transition, retrieve 𝑁cached chunks a(𝑖)
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1 ∼𝜋base(· | s𝑡+𝐻, 𝑙), 𝑖= 1, . . . , 𝑁
6:
a′
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1 ←arg maxa∈{a(𝑖)}𝑁
𝑖=1 𝑄¯𝜃(s𝑡+𝐻, a, 𝑙, ˜𝑙𝑡+𝐻)
7:
𝑦𝑡←𝑟˜𝑙𝑡(s𝑡) + 𝛾𝑐𝑇(1 −𝐼𝑡) 𝑄¯𝜃(s𝑡+𝐻, a′
𝑡+𝐻:𝑡+2𝐻−1, 𝑙, ˜𝑙𝑡+𝐻) {𝐼𝑡: subtask boundary in 𝑡: 𝑡+ 𝐻−1}
8:
ℒTD ←Eℬ
[︀(︀
𝑄𝜃(s𝑡, a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻−1, 𝑙, ˜𝑙𝑡) −sg(𝑦𝑡)
)︀2]︀
{sg: stop-gradient}
9:
Compute ℒsubtask by teacher forcing ˜𝑙𝑡(Eq. 4), averaging over tokens within each example and
then over ℬ
10:
ℒ←ℒTD + 𝜆subtaskℒsubtask
11:
Update 𝜃with AdamW using ∇𝜃ℒand learning rate 𝜂
12:
¯𝜃←(1 −𝜏) ¯𝜃+ 𝜏𝜃
13: end for
the active subtask ends within the TD window, with the reward discounted to the subtask boundary;
otherwise the reward is zero and the value bootstraps from the next state using a discount matched to
the same time window. Because a fixed-length action chunk covers more wall-clock time at a lower frame
rate, the 30 fps trajectories additionally use only the leading portion of each chunk (the trailing slots are
masked), so the effective action horizon again matches across the two rates.
A.1.3. Training and Inference Algorithm Details
Algorithm 1 summarizes the SeeQ training procedure used for both pre-training and fine-tuning,
following Section 3. Unlike the per-recorded-step discount in the main text, the algorithm’s 𝛾is defined
at the reference rate 𝑐= 150 Hz. At recording rate 𝑓, the main-text discount therefore corresponds to
𝛾𝑐/𝑓here, and a 𝑇-second backup uses 𝛾𝑐𝑇. The model predicts the active subtask autoregressively from
the visual observation and task instruction, then evaluates the action chunk conditioned on that subtask.
During training, ground-truth subtask tokens provide teacher-forced supervision for the next-token loss
and remain visible to the action tokens and the value token. Causal attention within the subtask sequence
ensures that each token is predicted from the observation, task instruction, and preceding subtask tokens.
The rewards and discounts in the TD targets follow the control-rate normalization in Appendix A.1.2.
In the algorithm, 𝑟˜𝑙𝑡(s𝑡) denotes the discounted subtask-completion reward within the TD window, and
bootstrapping stops when the active subtask terminates within that window. Both current and target Q-
values are conditioned on the corresponding ground-truth subtask during training. Base-policy candidates
for the TD backups are sampled and cached offline.
At inference, given (s𝑡, 𝑙), SeeQ first autoregressively decodes the active subtask ˆ𝑙𝑡. The base policy
proposes 𝑁= 8 action chunks, and the critic scores each candidate as 𝑄𝜃(s𝑡, a(𝑖), 𝑙, ˆ𝑙𝑡). The robot executes
19


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
0
50k
100k
150k
200k
Training step
-1.2
-1.0
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
Q −MC
Final EMA: 0.033
a) Subtask-level TD-BoN
Raw mean
EMA
±1 SD
0
50k
100k
150k
200k
Training step
-1.2
-1.0
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
Q −MC
Final EMA: -0.153
b) Task-level TD-BoN
Raw mean
EMA
±1 SD
Figure 6: Q-values relative to recorded returns during RoboCOIN pre-training. Gray: batch-mean 𝑄−MC; red: EMA
with a 1,000-step half-life; shading: ±1 standard deviation of the exponentially weighted prediction-minus-return differences.
(a) SeeQ with subtask returns shows a near-zero gap after initial underestimation. (b) Task-level TD-BoN persistently
underestimates task returns.
the highest-scoring candidate, using the predicted subtask in place of the ground-truth annotation supplied
during training. No external subtask annotations or manual subtask switching are required at inference.
Value overestimation. We monitor the difference between predicted Q-values for dataset action chunks
and their recorded MC returns during RoboCOIN pre-training, using subtask returns for SeeQ and task
returns for task-level TD-BoN. The expected 𝑄−MC gap upper-bounds mean signed overestimation
relative to the optimal value for the corresponding reward: an optimal continuation achieves at least
the expected return of the recorded behavior. A positive gap can therefore reflect both estimation error
and improvement over the recorded continuation. This interpretation applies in expectation on dataset
actions. Figure 6(a) shows this gap for SeeQ over the full pre-training run.
A.1.4. SeeQ architecture
Figure 2 summarizes the PaliGemma-based architecture of SeeQ. SigLIP encodes the camera images into
patch tokens; Gemma processes these with task and subtask text, linearly projected action tokens, and a
learned value token at the end of the sequence. Image and task tokens attend bidirectionally. Subtask
tokens use a causal mask: they attend to the images, task instruction, and preceding subtask text, but not
to later actions or the value token. Action tokens attend bidirectionally within the candidate chunk and
can attend to all preceding image and language tokens, including the subtask.
The final value token attends to all valid preceding tokens, combining the observed state, language
context, and candidate actions; a linear readout maps its final representation to a scalar Q-value. Earlier
tokens cannot attend to the value token. Padding and unused action positions are masked. We do not
use proprioceptive state as an input to any of the value functions trained. During training, the model
receives ground-truth subtask tokens; at inference, it first decodes the subtask and then scores candidate
action chunks.
20


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
A.1.5. Evaluation Protocol
For each of the four tasks, we evaluate the models being compared over 24 trials. Randomization is
consistent across models: trial 𝑖uses the same physical setup and task instruction for every model
evaluated on that task. Figure 3 illustrates the four tasks using top-camera snapshots from dataset
demonstrations.
1. shirt-hang. We randomize the shirt’s position and tilt across trials. The hanger’s position also varies,
and the robot must insert the hanger into both sleeves of the shirt and hang it on the rod.
2. lid-sealing. We randomize the positions of the container and the lid on the dish rack. The robot must
pick up the lid and align it with the container. Successful sealing requires closing all four latching
flaps.
3. grocery-packing. Each trial uses two of three box types, with eight trials for each of the three possible
pairs. Each trial has a different language instruction specifying the set of objects to pack. The exact
object sets here are absent from the training distribution, testing generalization to new packing
requests.
4. lego-disassembly. The assembled blocks have the same initial shape and orientation as in training.
We randomize the language instruction specifying the mapping from block colors to tray colors. The
robot must disassemble the blocks and place them in the trays according to this mapping.
A.2. Additional Experimental Results
A.2.1. Subtask Prediction and Value Conditioning
The ablation in Section 4.4 separates the benefit of the auxiliary next-token prediction (NTP) loss from
that of explicitly conditioning values on the decoded subtask. Skipping subtask decoding is an appealing
way to reduce inference latency: joint training might allow latent activations to carry the relevant subtask
information implicitly. A similar motivation appears in video–action models such as UVA and Fast-WAM,
which retain video supervision while bypassing explicit video generation at action-inference time [21, 35].
We compare SeeQ with the variant that retains the auxiliary NTP loss but does not condition its value head
on subtask tokens. Both use subtask-level TD-BoN and the same NTP weight of 0.1, and are fine-tuned on
shirt-hang with the same learning-rate schedule, starting from their corresponding RoboCOIN-pretrained
checkpoints.
Figure 7 evaluates both critics on the same held-out shirt-hang trajectory, using the same checkpoints as
in our evaluations. We also decode the ablation’s subtask prediction for this diagnostic, without supplying
it to the value head. Although the overall value curves are similar, their behavior near subtask changes
differs. For SeeQ, the largest one-frame drop coincides with the predicted subtask switch in all five
displayed transitions, and both fall thresholds are crossed in that frame. Without conditioning, the drops
span 4–24 frames and can begin before or finish after the switch. These results suggest that, without
explicit subtask conditioning, the model learns two highly accurate but largely independent predictions.
The lags between subtask switches and value resets indicate that these predictions lack the desired
coupling. In SeeQ, explicit conditioning ties the value reset to a change in the model’s inferred subtask.
21


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
Frame
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Predicted value
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
SeeQ (value conditioned on the predicted subtask)
No subtask conditioning (NTP loss only)
Predicted-subtask switch (colour = critic)
126
146
166
Frame
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Predicted value
(a) Lift the hanger off the rod
Fall span: 0 vs 12
274
294
314
Frame
(b) Pass hanger from right to
left arm
Fall span: 0 vs 24
442
462
482
Frame
(c) Hook one side of the shirt
onto the hanger
Fall span: 0 vs 4
981
1001
1021
Frame
(d) Hook the other side of the
shirt onto the hanger
Fall span: 0 vs 9
1433
1453
1473
Frame
(e) Place the hanger on the rod
Fall span: 0 vs 9
Figure 7: Subtask conditioning aligns value resets with predicted subtask changes. Both critics evaluate recorded dataset
action chunks. Top: predicted values along a held-out shirt-hang trajectory. Bottom: enlarged views of the five shaded regions;
colored dashed lines mark each critic’s predicted switch nearest the panel center. Fall span counts frames between the first
5% and 95% of the local peak-to-trough drop, using the maximum value in the 20 frames before that critic’s switch and the
minimum from the switch through 20 frames after it. A drop crossing both thresholds in one frame has span 0. Panel titles
report SeeQ versus no conditioning.
A.2.2. Value Predictions across Learning Objectives
The objectives in Section 4.2 differ both in their backup and in the horizon over which reward must
propagate. Figure 6(b) shows persistent underestimation and a broad distribution of 𝑄−MC differences
for task-level TD-BoN during RoboCOIN pre-training. One plausible source of this dispersion is variation
in task horizon: with sparse terminal rewards, TD estimates can collapse toward zero on very long tasks
while remaining useful on shorter tasks.
Figure 8 compares snapshot-and-value strips on shirt-hang and grocery-packing trajectories to qualita-
tively assess the generalization of the learned value functions.
Figure 9 compares SeeQ with the no-pretraining and task-specific ResNet-50 baselines from Section 4.3
on a held-out shirt-hang trajectory.
A.3. Hyperparameters
Shared critic settings. Except for the ResNet-50 ablation, all critics use a PaliGemma backbone with
224×224 images from three cameras and float32 precision. Critics use AdamW with weight decay 10−6,
𝛽1 = 0.9, 𝛽2 = 0.95, 𝜖= 10−8, and gradient-norm clipping at 1. TD critics use a target-network EMA rate
22


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
1
2
3
4
5
0
0.5
1
Subtask
value
SeeQ
SARSA
0
1000
2000
Step
0
0.5
1
Task
value
TD-BoN
MC
(a)
grocery-packing
Predicted subtask · SeeQ and SARSA
Pack Soda can into
the small box.
Pack Nesquik
container into the
small box.
Pack Pink tumbler into
the small box.
Pack Altoids container
into the large box.
Pack Pringles chip bag
into the large box.
1
2
3
4
5
0
0.5
1
Subtask
value
SeeQ
SARSA
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
Step
0
0.5
1
Task
value
TD-BoN
MC
(b)
shirt-hang
Predicted subtask · SeeQ and SARSA
Grasp the hanger
Pass hanger from
right to left arm
Hook one side of the
shirt onto the hanger
Hook the other side of
the shirt onto the
hanger
Place the hanger on
the rod
Figure 8: Comparison of the value functions in Section 4.2. All critics evaluate recorded dataset action chunks. (a) In this
held-out episode, the Nesquik container must be reoriented in frame 2 because the soda can obstructs it, causing SeeQ’s value
to drop. In the final frame, MC predictions are noisy despite smooth progress. (b) In this held-out episode, the value jumps in
frame 1 as the gripper reorients to grasp the hanger correctly. In frame 4, the left gripper unintentionally releases the collar,
causing the value to drop. Frame 5 again shows noisy MC predictions.
23


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
1
2
3
4
5
0
1000
2000
3000
Step
0
0.5
1
Value
SeeQ
No pretraining
ResNet-50
shirt-hang
Predicted subtask · all three critics
Grasp the hanger
Pass hanger from
right to left arm
Hook one side of the
shirt onto the hanger
Hook the other side of
the shirt onto the
hanger
Place the hanger on
the rod
Figure 9: Comparison of the value functions in Section 4.3 on a held-out episode. All critics evaluate recorded dataset
action chunks. In frame 3 (red), the right gripper releases the collar, causing the value to drop. The ResNet-50 value peaks
about 0.7 s before this release, so the evaluated action chunk includes the failure; this indicates an incorrect value estimate,
unlike the VLM critics in this case. SeeQ generally produces smoother predictions than SeeQ without robot pretraining and
the task-specific ResNet-50 critic, indicating better generalization.
of 𝜏= 0.005. We use the action representation and quantile normalization described in Appendix A.1.1,
with action chunks of length 50 for RoboCOIN pretraining and 60 for downstream training. RoboCOIN
critic pretraining uses batch size 256; all downstream critic training uses batch size 128.
Base policies. For each downstream task, we finetune 𝜋0.5 from its released base checkpoint. The same
fixed task-specific policy supplies candidates for SeeQ and all critic ablations, and is evaluated directly
as the BC baseline. Policies use Adam and the same optimizer coefficients and clipping threshold as
the critics. Their cosine learning-rate schedules have peak 5 × 10−5, 1000 warmup steps, and endpoint
5 × 10−6. Table 5 distinguishes the number of training steps used for the selected policy from the full LR
schedule length. The grocery-packing and lego-disassembly policies condition on manually advanced
subtask prompts; this is a property of the base policy, separate from the critic’s own subtask prediction.
Table 5: Downstream base-policy hyperparameters. Training steps refer to the policy checkpoint used in evaluation; LR
decay length refers to the full configured cosine schedule.
Task
Training steps
LR decay steps
Batch size
shirt-hang
60k
200k
128
lid-sealing
40k
60k
256
grocery-packing
70k
70k
256
lego-disassembly
20k
20k
256
The separate 𝜋0.5 policy used to generate candidate actions for RoboCOIN critic pretraining is trained
for 230k steps with batch size 256. Its learning rate warms up for 1000 steps to 10−5 and then remains
constant.
Critic pretraining. All PaliGemma critics in Table 6 are pretrained on the same 131 RoboCOIN task
datasets for 230k steps, using a cosine learning-rate schedule with peak 10−5, 1000 warmup steps, and
endpoint 10−6. The auxiliary next-token prediction (NTP) loss has weight 0.1 whenever subtask prediction
is enabled, and 0 otherwise. TD-BoN uses 8 policy candidates for its pretraining backup.
24


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Table 6: Critic pretraining variants. All rows use 230k pretraining steps and the shared schedule above. Conditioning refers
to the critic’s value prediction, independently of the base-policy prompt.
Critic
Return scope
𝛾
NTP weight
Subtask conditioning
SeeQ (TD-BoN)
Subtask
0.999
0.1
Yes
SARSA
Subtask
0.999
0.1
Yes
MC
Task
0.9995
0
No
TD-BoN
Task
0.9995
0
No
NTP, no conditioning
Subtask
0.999
0.1
No
Neither NTP nor conditioning
Subtask
0.999
0
No
Downstream critic finetuning. Each pretrained critic starts from its 230k checkpoint. Finetuning
uses a cosine LR from 5 × 10−6 to 5 × 10−7 over 20k steps, without warmup. Table 7 lists the selected
checkpoints: 250k corresponds to 20k finetuning steps, while 240k corresponds to 10k finetuning steps
within the same 20k LR schedule. For the shirt-hang variant with NTP but no subtask conditioning,
we select the 240k checkpoint because it performed better than the 250k checkpoint. This differs from
the evaluation protocol in the remaining experiments, where we do not perform checkpoint selection.
The resulting success rate can therefore be viewed as a favorable upper bound for this ablation; the
conclusion that explicit subtask conditioning improves performance still holds. This value function is
used for policy-steering comparisons only in Section 4.4. For SeeQ on lego-disassembly, we use the
240k checkpoint because this task has a much smaller dataset.
Table 7: Downstream critic checkpoints. All rows initialize from the corresponding 230k pretrained critic and use a 20k LR
decay schedule.
Critic
Downstream task
Finetuning steps
Checkpoint step
SeeQ
shirt-hang, lid-sealing, grocery-packing
20k
250k
SeeQ
lego-disassembly
10k
240k
Task-level MC
shirt-hang, grocery-packing
20k
250k
Task-level TD-BoN
shirt-hang, grocery-packing
20k
250k
Subtask-level SARSA
shirt-hang, grocery-packing
20k
250k
NTP, no conditioning
shirt-hang
10k
240k
Neither NTP nor conditioning
shirt-hang
20k
250k
Critics without robot pretraining. The two task-specific shirt-hang ablations are trained directly for
20k steps and evaluated at checkpoint 20k. SeeQ without robot pretraining initializes from PaliGemma
and uses a cosine LR from 5 × 10−6 to 5 × 10−7 over 20k steps with 1000 warmup steps. The ResNet-50 +
MLP critic initializes its image encoder from ImageNet weights and uses a cosine LR from 10−5 to 10−6
over 20k steps with 1000 warmup steps. Both use the subtask-level TD-BoN objective with 𝛾= 0.999, 8
backup candidates, and subtask-prediction loss weight 0.1; the ResNet critic predicts the subtask as a
categorical label.
A.4. RoboCOIN Pretraining Dataset
We construct our diverse pretraining dataset from the bimanual-embodiment subset of RoboCOIN [33],
including humanoid robot data. The combined training and validation splits contain 131 task datasets,
25


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
40,054 episodes, and 31,337,006 steps across three embodiments: Agilex Cobot Magic, Agilex Split ALOHA,
and Galaxea R1 Lite. This is the filtered set available when we constructed the dataset; subsequent
RoboCOIN releases have added more data. Table 8 lists the task datasets included in this snapshot.
Figure 10 shows the distribution of subtask durations in RoboCOIN, in seconds. To match the temporal
scale of pre-training, we define subtasks in the target tasks with average durations of ≈5–25 seconds.
0
10
20
30
40
50
Subtask duration (s)
0
5
10
15
20
Samples (%)
Median: 7.5 s
Figure 10: Histogram of RoboCOIN subtask durations in seconds.
26


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Table 8: The 131 RoboCOIN task datasets used for pre-training. Task identifiers are grouped by embodiment, with the
embodiment prefix omitted and underscores rendered as hyphens. Released spellings and variant suffixes are retained.
Agilex Cobot Magic (63 tasks)
box-storage-chopsticks
cap-the-pen-a
catch-the-ball
classification-of-fruits-and-
vegetables
classification-of-fruits-and-
vegetables-a
classification-of-tableware
clean-blackboard
clean-up-the-tableware
clear-the-desktop
close-book
close-button
cube-reset
cut-banana
desktop-organization
drawer-storage-mineral-water
fold-clothes
fold-the-towel
fold-towel-a
food-packaging
make-fruit-salad
make-hamburger
mobile-cube
mobile-cube-blackboard
move-beverage
move-plate
move-the-ball
move-the-ball-and-the-cube-
block
move-the-ball-interference
move-the-bread
move-the-cup
move-the-plate
move-the-small-ball
movethe-position-of-the-
bluetooth
open-the-shoebox
place-square-pyramid
place-the-cube-block
place-the-test-tube
plate-storage-apple
plate-storage-bread
plate-storaje-baozi
pot-storage-steamer
pour-drink
pour-water-a
pour-water-bottle
prepare-breakfast
pull-zipper
pushing-magnet
put-in-the-pear
put-the-building-block-on-the-
table
steamer-storage-dumpling
storage-plate
take-out-a-pen-from-the-pen-
holder
take-out-the-bread
take-the-shoes-off-the-shelf
the-box-stores-table-tennis-balls
the-plate-holds-the-fruit
the-plate-holds-the-vegetables
turn-off-the-desk-lamp
turn-on-the-bulb
turn-on-the-desk-lamp
twist-bottle-cap
vase-storage-flower
water-bottle-storage
Agilex Split ALOHA (16 tasks)
basket-storage-banana
basket-storage-bread
basket-storage-egg-yolk-pastry
basket-storage-long-bread
basket-storage-orange
basket-storage-peach
fold-the-pants
plate-storage
pour-rice
pour-tea
scoop-coffee-beans
stack-baskets
stir-coffee
wipe-table
wipe-the-table
zip-up-the-document-bag
Galaxea R1 Lite (52 tasks)
boil-water-in-a-kettle
catch-the-water
clean-the-floor
clean-the-sink
clean-toilet
connect-the-router-cable
cook-a-meal
cover-the-pot-lid
dispose-of-leftover-food
drawer-storage-hair-dryer
fold-clothes
garbage-disposal
hang-clothes
make-a-landline-call
make-breakfast
make-tea
make-the-bed
open-and-close-curtains
27


SeeQ: Training Generalist Value Functions for Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation
Table 8 (continued)
open-and-close-microwave-oven
open-and-close-nightstand-door
open-and-close-nightstand-
drawer
open-and-close-the-freezer-door
open-the-food-pan
opening-and-closing-aalcony-
sliding-doors
pick-up-and-store-items
place-the-dress-shirt-on-the-
hanger
plug-the-socket
pour-water
put-on-a-garbage-bag
put-slippers-into-floor-standing-
shoe-cabinet
put-the-pillow-on-the-bed
put-the-shoes-into-the-shoe-box
put-the-tableware-into-the-
cupboard
sliding-chair
storage-of-toiletries
switch-labels
switch-on-and-off-the-central-air-
conditioning
tableware-arrangement
tableware-cleaning
take-and-place-the-portable-
power-bank
take-and-put-away-garden-stuff
take-and-put-away-garden-stuff-
a
take-and-put-away-items
take-and-put-the-bowl
take-clothes-out-of-the-washing-
machine
take-or-store-plates
tea-service-table-setting
throw-out-the-trash
tidy-up-toiletries
wash-the-tableware
washing-board
wipe-the-table
28
