DITTO: Dexterous Interface for Transparent TeleOperation
Joaquin Palacios∗,1, Katelyn Lee∗,1, Cheng Zhang2, Zhanpeng He†,3, and Matei Ciocarlie†,1
Inter-Finger Dexterous Rotations
a.
c.
d.
Motorized Exoskeleton
( Leader )
Joint-Level 
Position Control
Joint-Level 
Force Feedback
1:1 Kinematics
Dexterous Hand
( Follower )
Camera
b.
Leader
Follower 
Visual Match
Uniﬁed Data Collection System
Teleop w/ force feedback
Handheld 
Dexterous Policies
Fig. 1: Overview of DITTO. (a) 1-to-1 leader-follower design enables joint-level force feedback and allows for (b) a unified platform
supporting both bilateral teleoperation and handheld (in-the-wild) data collection. DITTO’s anatomy-based design is capable of (d)
human-like dexterous primitives, such as multi-axes rotations. We demonstrate dexterity and data quality via (e) contact-rich manipulation
policies. Videos at: https://ditto-robotics.github.io/.
Abstract— Collecting for manipulation with high-DOF hands
is challenging, as interfaces must capture rich hand motion
while rendering the contact interactions essential for precise
manipulation. Existing data collection approaches face a trade-
off: teleoperation ensures deployment consistency but lacks
force feedback, while handheld (in-the-wild) systems provide
natural force transparency but introduce a visual embodiment
gap at deployment. We present DITTO, a Dexterous Interface
for Transparent TeleOperation, which resolves this through the
anatomically informed co-design of a dexterous 7-DOF robotic
hand and a kinematically equivalent motorized exoskeleton.
A 1-to-1 actuator mapping between the exoskeleton and
robotic hand enables handheld (in-the-wild) data collection and
bilateral teleoperation with joint-level force feedback unified in
a single platform. We demonstrate that the DITTO exoskeleton
spans the operator’s natural index-to-thumb workspace, and
showcase DITTO’s dexterous capabilities via learned policies
on contact-rich tasks. Videos are available at: https://ditto-
robotics.github.io/.
Index Terms— Teleoperation, Dexterous Manipulation, Ex-
oskeleton
I. INTRODUCTION
Human demonstrations are a critical source of data for
learning robot manipulation policies [1], [2]. In particular, two
dominant paradigms have emerged for collecting manipulation
demonstrations: teleoperation and handheld (in-the-wild)
collection. However, both paradigms remain challenging for
* Equal contribution.
† Equal advising.
1Dept. of Mechanical
Engineering, 2Dept. of Computer Science, Columbia University. 3Dept.
of Computer Science, Stanford University.
highly articulated hands that use intrinsic DOFs for in-hand
object reorientation and fine-grained regulation of contact
forces between the hand, objects, and environment.
In teleoperation, human movement is recorded and used to
command a remote robot manipulator to perform a task for
data collection. This ensures that, from the perspective of the
robot, demonstration data matches autonomous deployment.
However, common teleoperation interfaces such as vision-
based tracking [3] and sensor gloves [4] can make fine-grained
control unintuitive due to lack of force feedback and the
kinematic gap between the operator’s hand and the robot.
Wearable motorized exoskeletons are an attractive alternative
as they can provide force feedback at the fingertips [5], [6],
but they do not resolve this kinematic gap.
In contrast, in the handheld or in-the-wild data collection
paradigm, the demonstrator collects manipulation data directly
through an interface physically attached to their hand [7]–[9].
This mode is scalable and intuitive: the demonstrator receives
direct force feedback from physical contact, and the interface
itself constrains motion to the target hand’s kinematics.
However, it introduces a gap between data collection and
deployment in both observation and action. For palm-mounted
cameras, visual differences can be mitigated through in-
painting
[7] or hardware appearance matching
[8], [9],
but images from extrinsic cameras still include the operator,
creating a visual mismatch. Moreover, because the robot’s
actuators do not execute the demonstration, the collected
arXiv:2609.19196v1  [cs.RO]  16 Sep 2026


actions do not faithfully capture contact-rich interactions.
Lastly, although mechanically constraining the user to the
target hand’s kinematics reduces the kinematic gap, if the
robot’s kinematics are not well aligned with the user’s natural
workspace, it can hinder their dexterity and natural motion.
These paradigms expose a trade-off: teleoperation collects
high-fidelity, robot-native data, but high-DOF control is
difficult due to a lack of kinematic and force transparency.
In-the-wild interfaces provide intuitive collection with natural
force feedback, but introduce mismatches between data
collection and deployment in both observation and action.
We present DITTO, Dexterous Interface for Transparent
TeleOperation, which bridges this trade-off through the
anatomically informed co-design of a dexterous 7-DOF 2-
finger (thumb–index) robot hand and a matching motorized
and wearable exoskeleton (Figure 1). The key features of
DITTO, and the main contributions of this paper, include:
●With only two fingers, DITTO uses a high-DOF kinematic
structure to provide in-hand dexterity using intrinsic fin-
ger motion, without need for re-grasping or large wrist
movement. In particular, our kinematic analysis on human
manipulation data shows that DITTO’s workspace spans
the natural human index-to-thumb dexterous workspace.
●DITTO provides a 1:1 kinematic and actuator correspon-
dence between the exoskeleton and its corresponding robot
hand. This co-design enables joint-level force feedback
for force-aware teleoperation even for dexterous primitives
such as continuous rotation and in-hand object reorientation.
●DITTO provides a unified platform supporting both scalable
handheld data collection and bilateral teleoperation with
force feedback, enabling complementary data sources
within a single system. Our user study (n=8) shows that
force-aware teleoperation produces faster and better demon-
strations (lower unwanted forces), and that established
methods such as Diffusion Policies can readily learn from
both types of DITTO data across contact-rich tasks that
leverage intrinsic dexterity.
II. RELATED WORK
Teleoperation for dexterous hands: Controlling high-DOF
hands for dexterous tasks requires 1) fine-grained control and
2) regulating contact forces during manipulation. The former
is challenging due to the kinematic gap between the operator’s
and the robot’s hand; the latter is challenging due the lack
of force feedback, relying purely on vision. Commonly used
motion tracking-based systems [3] are lightweight and easy
to use for simple grasping tasks, but are limited by these
challenges in dexterous tasks.
Leader-follower designs like TILDE [10] can close the
kinematic gap directly through joint-level correspondence.
However, TILDE is not wearable, making arm control
during teleoperation difficult, and lacks force feedback. A
complementary line of work narrows the kinematic gap
in software rather than hardware, augmenting kinematic
retargeting with reinforcement-learned skill priors [4]; this
can improve teleoperation fidelity but requires a trained skill
prior and still provides no force transparency.
TABLE I: Comparison with previous devices.
Device
Tasks
Teleoperation
In-The-Wild
Observation
IHD
Force Feedback
Supported
NIP
Ex. Cam.
DOGlove [5]
✗
Single-Axis
✗
N/A
✓
GEX [6]
✗
Task-Space
✗
N/A
✓
DexUMI [7]
✓
✗
✓
✗
✗
DEXOP [8]
✓
✗
✓
✓
✗
DEX-Mouse [12]
✗
Single-Axis
✓
✓
✗
DITTO (ours)
✓
Joint-Level
✓
✓
✓
IHD = in-hand dexterity, or ability to reorient objects with intrinsic DOFs; NIP = no
in-painting needed; Ex. Cam. = extrinsic camera without human operators in the frame.
Motorized hand exoskeletons aim to improve force reg-
ulation by rendering force feedback to the operator during
teleoperation [5], [6], [11]. However, in packaging actuators
for force feedback, these devices forgo kinematic correspon-
dence. This means they also rely on kinematic retargeting
for motion. This limitation extends to force feedback, where
devices either simplify feedback to a single-axis force per
finger (i.e. DOGlove), or retarget forces in task space (i.e
GEX [6] and N2D [11]), both of which do not provide
understanding of which joint is applying/experiencing forces.
Handheld (In-the-wild) data collection: Handheld devices
mitigate the issues of teleoperation by having users perform
the task via a wearable data collection interface, directly
feeling interaction forces during manipulation. DexUMI [7]
is a wearable exoskeleton that constrains the user’s hand to
the target kinematics, but requires in-painting to reduce the
visual mismatch compared to the target hand. DEXOP [8]
and DexEXO [9] instead use linkages connecting the user’s
fingertips to the target hand, positioning the palm camera to
capture the actual robot and reduce the visual mismatch (in
the palm camera), eliminating the need for in-painting.
However, embodiment gaps remain in two forms: 1)
external camera views still include the operator in frame,
creating a large visual mismatch (which does not exist during
teleoperation), and 2) the user performs the actions and applies
forces, so demonstrations do not capture the robot’s actuator
dynamics. DEX-Mouse [12] is a hybrid of teleoperation and
handheld collection system where the user wears both the
target hand and a motorized wearable, controlling the hand’s
wrist pose with their own arm and teleoperating the robot’s
finger motion to fully capture the hand’s actuator dynamics.
However, this mode still does not support extrinsic camera
views without visual mismatch, and is limited in dexterity
due to one DOF and actuator per finger.
From a kinematic standpoint, this family of devices
constrain the user’s hand movements to the target hand’s
kinematics, which can constrain the human hand’s natural
workspace. DEXOP [8] mitigates the workspace constraint
by co-designing the wearable interface and robotic hand, but
does not provide quantitative kinematic analysis of how well
the workspace aligns with human hand.
Table I places DITTO in the context of existing devices.
DITTO co-designs a wearable, motorized exoskeleton with a
matching 7-DOF thumb–index follower hand. The resulting
1:1 actuator mapping enables joint-level force feedback
during bilateral teleoperation, supports handheld in-the-wild
collection without in-painting, and, in teleop mode, allows
extrinsic cameras without the operator in frame, while


MCP
MCP
IP
PIP
CMC
a. Anatomical joint alignment
b. Hardware joint alignment
DITTO Leader Exo
Human Hand
DITTO Leader Exo
DITTO Follower Hand
Thumb Abduction
Thumb Opposition
c. CMC joint movement
Fig. 2: (a) DITTO aligns each of its 7 motor axes with a
finger joint axis. In blue, the 2-DoF CMC and MCP joints
have offset, decoupled motors so the motor axes intersect
at the anatomical joint center. (b) DITTO has 1:1 kinematic
equivalence between the leader exoskeleton and the follower
hand. (c) The offset, decoupled motors for the CMC enable
dexterous thumb motions like abduction and opposition.
retaining in-hand dexterity via intrinsic finger motion.
III. DITTO HARDWARE DESIGN
DITTO aims to bridge the fundamental trade-off between
kinematic and force transparency in teleoperation by co-
designing a dexterous 7-DOF hand and a kinematically
equivalent motorized wearable exoskeleton. This leader-
follower system has a 1:1 actuator mapping, where every
motor on the follower hand corresponds to a motor on the
leader exoskeleton. This concept has been demonstrated for
arm teleoperation [13], [14] but not for high-DOF hands in
a wearable form factor. The primary difficulty lies in the
non-obtrusive, wearable packaging of enough actuators to
achieve complex tip-to-tip movement without restricting the
user’s natural workspace. In this section, we describe how we
achieve this via careful, anatomically-inspired kinematic co-
design and how the 1:1 actuator mapping enables joint-level
force rendering and transparency during teleoperation.
A. DITTO Kinematics
a) Leader Kinematics: We designed DITTO around
the human hand, using anatomical finger kinematics as the
basis for both the wearable exoskeleton (leader) and the
robotic hand (follower). For the exoskeleton, we prioritize
wearability and anatomical joint alignment, ensuring the
exoskeleton axes coincide with the biological joint axes of the
index finger and thumb. The DITTO index finger has three
DOF: one aligning with the PIP (proximal interphalangeal)
joint, and two aligning with the MCP (metacarpophalangeal)
joint. The DITTO thumb has four DOF: two aligning with
the IP (interphalangeal) and MCP flexion joints, and two
aligning with the CMC (carpometacarpal) joint. The CMC
joint is a complex biological joint whose motion is commonly
approximated as a two DOF universal joint with perpendicular
axes, and we adopt this simplification in our design [15].
To accommodate the servo motors within the form factor
of a wearable hand exoskeleton, we position them along
the plane formed by the tip-to-tip pinch grasp between the
index finger and thumb (Fig. 2a.). For the index finger
PIP joint and the thumb flexion degrees of freedom, this
placement is straightforward, as the joint axes align naturally
with motor placement in this plane. For the index MCP and
thumb CMC joints—each of which we model as a two DOF
universal joint—direct motor placement is more constrained.
We address this with a non-anthropomorphic design that
decouples each universal joint into two offset joints whose
axes intersect at the anatomical center of rotation of the
human joint (Fig. 2c.). This decoupled arrangement allows
each motor to align with one rotational axis of the universal
joint while remaining positioned around the hand.
The exoskeleton attaches to the operator’s hand at three
points of contact: a rigid handpiece on the dorsal side of the
hand and two finger caps on the distal links of the index
finger and thumb. Users don the exoskeleton by aligning with
their index MCP joint and securing the base to the dorsal side
of their hand. Each fingercap consists of a silicone cap and
a rigid piece that connects the user’s fingertips: one attaches
at the PIP joint on the index finger frame, and the other at
the IP joint on the thumb frame. To accommodate a range of
hand sizes, these finger interface pieces can be customized
to different finger lengths.
b) Follower Kinematics: We derive the robot follower
hand kinematics directly from the exoskeleton leader to
keep the same joint positions and axes for 1:1 kinematic
transparency. Without the space constraint of the operator’s
hand on the exoskeleton leader, we can use larger servo
motors with greater output torque for the robot follower hand.
The larger motors impose space constraints and require two
joints to be translated along the joint axis: the index MCP
abduction joint by 12 mm and the first thumb CMC joint by
33.1 mm. All remaining links are kinematically identical to


the leader, preserving joint-level transparency between the
operator and the follower hand.
B. Hardware characteristics
The leader exoskeleton is low-cost at ≈$900 and weighs
430 g; donning and doffing take about 20 s and 10 s, respec-
tively. The follower hand weighs 935 g and costs ≈$1500, a
substantially lower price than typical commercial dexterous
hands. We selected Dynamixel XC330-T181 motors for the
leader exoskeleton for their small size and because their 181:1
gear ratio was small enough to allow users to comfortably
backdrive them during motion capture. The follower hand
uses Dynamixel XM430 motors for all joints except the most
distal index PIP and thumb IP joints, which use smaller
Dynamixel XC330-T288 motors.
C. Teleoperation with Force Feedback
DITTO’s leader/follower 1:1 actuator mapping enables
joint-level force feedback with direct per-joint correspondence.
This has the added benefit of reducing bilateral teleoperation
to simple per-joint loops:
●Leader to follower: Joint-level position tracking via
Dynamixel position control.
●Follower to leader: Force feedback on the leader is com-
puted independently for each joint using the corresponding
follower motor current. A deadband is applied to suppress
feedback during free-space motion:
τl =
⎧⎪⎪⎨⎪⎪⎩
−kf (τf −τth),
if ∣τf∣> τth
0,
otherwise
(1)
where τf denotes the estimated torque from motor current
of the follower actuator, kf is a feedback gain, and τth
defines a deadband threshold that filters out low-magnitude
currents associated with general motion, while capturing
high-magnitude currents from contacts and applied forces.
This structure eliminates the need for task-space force
mapping and reduces computational overhead. Our system
supports bilateral teleoperation at 200 Hz using off-the-
shelf U2D2’s for communication with Dynamixel motors.
User safety is enforced via conservative joint torque limits
(200mA ≈0.08Nm), position limits, and an emergency stop.
D. Handheld Data Collection
While DITTO can be used for leader-follower teleoperation,
the DITTO exoskeleton by itself can also be used directly
for handheld data collection. To this end, the DITTO leader
is equipped with a camera and a pose tracking sensor. The
camera positioning matches that of camera on the follower
hand and is carefully placed to ensure only the exoskeleton is
visible and not the user’s hand, ensuring minimal visual gap
without requiring post-processing or in-painting (Fig. 1.b).
IV. USER STUDY: DEXTEROUS DATA COLLECTION
When used in leader-follower teleoperation mode, DITTO
aims to provide active force feedback while still allowing
rich tip-to-tip movement for dexterous tasks. To assess
the importance of these features, we conducted a user
TABLE II: User study metrics (avg & std for 8 users).
task
metric
DITTO
DITTO-NF Fingertip
mahjong tile
flips (#) 36.6 ± 11.0 27.2 ± 18.0
16.8 ± 7.3
ratchet
time (s)
24.1 ± 6.6
22.4 ± 9.1
34.2 ± 8.1
force (N)
6.9 ± 2.0
13.0 ± 3.0
14.8 ± 2.5
% ≤14.8N
92.8 ± 8.7
64.8 ± 11.5
56.7 ± 10.7
study (n = 8) comparing DITTO teleoperation against two
ablations and across two tasks that require coordinated
fingertip dexterity and force regulation. We compare three
teleoperation conditions:
●DITTO exoskeleton: leader-follower teleoperation using
DITTO exoskeleton with force feedback enabled.
●DITTO-NF (No Force): an ablation of DITTO’s bilateral
force rendering. The demonstrator uses the DITTO leader
exoskeleton joint position commands are related to the
follower hand, but force feedback on the leader is disabled.
●Fingertip: an ablation of DITTO’s joint-level kinematic
correspondence. The leader exoskeleton is not used at all;
instead, we attach 6-DOF pose trackers to the operator’s
fingertips and retarget fingertip motion to the DITTO
follower hand via inverse kinematics.
For each teleoperation condition, subjects completed two
tasks: mahjong tile and ratchet. In the mahjong
tile task, subjects flip a mahjong tile as many times as
possible within a 60-second interval. The tile rests on a
platform mounted to a 6-axis force-torque sensor, and subjects
teleoperate a 7-DOF robot arm while using the DITTO
follower hand to manipulate the tile. A successful flip is
defined as a clockwise, 90 degree rotation about the tile’s
long axis. This task evaluates speed in fingertip dexterity, as
successful manipulation requires coordinated index-thumb
motion to quickly grasp and rotate the tile. In the ratchet
task, subjects rotate a ratchet for three full revolutions as
fast as possible. The 7-DOF robot arm is locked into a fixed
pose relative to the ratchet to isolate interaction forces to
the DITTO follower hand to evaluate force regulation and
whether bilateral force rendering reduces excessive spurious
forces during manipulation.
Protocol All n = 8 subjects were recruited via our IRB-
approved protocol and had no prior experience with hand
teleoperation. To mitigate order effects across teleoperation
conditions and minimize exoskeleton donning and doffing
time, we used a hierarchical randomization procedure via
coin flip. For each participant, we first randomized whether
trials began with Fingertip tracking or a DITTO-based
condition. The order of the two DITTO-based conditions,
DITTO-NF and DITTO, was then randomized independently.
The order of tasks (mahjong tile, BOA) was kept constant
to ensure that any task learning effects were consistent across
participants and conditions.
Metrics
We evaluated performance using four metrics
II. The total flips (#) is the throughput of the number of
successful flips completed within the 60-second trial on


Fig. 3: (a) The three bolded lines in the ECDF plot denote the gross average over all n = 8 subjects per teleop condition, and
the faint lines denote the individual subject curves. (b) The stacked bar plot tallies the total number of mahjong tile flips
over the three trials, in order, with teleop condition labeled by color and trial number denoted by opacity.
the mahjong tile task, aggregated over three trials per
condition, capturing the manipulation efficiency of each
teleoperation condition. For the ratchet task, we measure
task completion time, defined as the total time required
to complete three full revolutions. We also measure the
interaction force magnitude with a 6-axis f/t sensor mounted
beneath the ratchet; lower values indicate finer force control.
To characterize the force distribution during active manipu-
lation in the ratchet condition, we aggregated all trials per
condition and computed the empirical distribution function
(ECDF), F(x) = # of points ≤x
n
, where x is the force magnitude,
and n is the total number of samples in the condition. We can
define a reference threshold at 14.8 N, the average force value
from the Fingertip condition [Table II], and calculate the
ECDF value for each condition, denoted as % ≤14.8N.
Statistical
significance
One-sided permutation tests
found statistically significant differences for DITTO vs.
Fingertip across all metrics (all p ≤0.023) and for DITTO
vs. DITTO-NF for the two ratchet force metrics (p =
0.012). ratchet times for DITTO-NF are slightly faster
than DITTO, but elevated ratchet forces suggest that users,
without force feedback, speed up task completion with more
aggressive behavior.
Mahjong Tile results
Aggregating across all three
trials, every subject completed the highest number of success-
ful flips with the DITTO exoskeleton, and all but S1 achieved
their highest total with force rendering enabled [Fig. 3a.].
On average, subjects completed 36.6 ± 11.0 total flips using
DITTO, compared to 27.28±18.0 with DITTO-NF and more
than 2× the 16.8 ± 7.3 total flips under Fingertip II. The
gap between Fingertip and the two exoskeleton conditions
indicates that DITTO’s kinematic structure supports more
effective coordinated fingertip manipulation than fingertip
retargeting alone.
We defined two failure cases for the mahjong tile task:
the tile getting flicked off of the platform and overloading
of the force-torque sensor due to excessive contact forces.
These failures occurred in 6/8 subjects, and only occurred
under the Fingertip and DITTO-NF conditions. For S2,
all Fingertip trials and 2 of 3 DITTO-NF trials failed due
to sensor overloading (force values of ≥100 N). These failure
cases suggest that force feedback also helps subjects regulate
object interaction forces during manipulation, preventing
excessive forces that could damage the manipulated object
or exceed sensor limits.
Ratchet
results
For the ratchet task, DITTO
yielded the lowest average interaction forces for every subject
at 6.9 ± 2.0 N, compared to 13.0 ± 3.0 N under DITTO-NF
and 14.8±2.5 N under Fingertip [Table II]. We filter out
force magnitudes below 0.45 N (3× the 0.15N resolution of
the force-torque sensor) to exclude idle periods between active
manipulation, which can bias the average force downward
and obscure differences in force regulation during the task.
The ECDF plots show that DITTO samples are concen-
trated at lower forces compared to the other teleoperation
conditions, with the DITTO lines having a steeper and
shorter curve than DITTO-NF and Fingertip lines [Fig 3].
Notably, Table II shows that for all subjects, DITTO has
the largest percentage of force values below the threshold,
indicating that force feedback reduces the prevalence of high-
force interactions.
While DITTO-NF achieved the fastest average completion
times, these trials also exhibited higher interaction forces,
suggesting that without force feedback, operators applied
more aggressive forces to complete the task quickly. This
indicates that the higher forces under DITTO-NF and
Fingertip were not essential for efficient performance,
but rather a consequence of reduced force awareness during
teleoperation.
V. KINEMATIC WORKSPACE ANALYSIS
Matching human index-to-thumb dexterity is a key design
goal for DITTO providing two important benefits. First, from
the perspective of the DITTO leader (a wearable exoskele-
ton), a human-like workspace removes constraints on the
teleoperator’s hand to allow natural and intuitive movement
without pressure points. Second, from a follower perspective,
human-like tip-to-tip movement implies high dexterity, since


Sampled Workspace 
Points
IK Solver
Target Position
Target Orientation
Data Collection
Success Metrics
TrakSTAR 
Sensors
✅
❌
DITTO
DOGlove
DexUMI
Fig. 4: Top: Kinematic analysis data collection and data
processing workflow. Bottom: Example workspace results
visualized, targets colored by IK solution quality, from green
(within tolerance) to red (error exceeds threshold).
the human hand can perform complex manipulation with just
index-to-thumb grasps exclusively.
In order to assess the DITTO tip-to-tip workspace, and
to compare it against the human hand, we performed a
kinematic analysis against data collected from seven subjects
of varying hand sizes. We use this analysis to quantitatively
compare the DITTO leader exoskeleton both against the
human thumb-to-index workspace and against two other high-
DOF wearable exoskeletons: DOGlove [5] and DexUMI-
Xhand exoskeleton [7].
Data collection: We attach two 6-DOF motion capture
sensors (trakSTAR, Ascension) to the index and thumb
fingertips and record subjects performing several tasks that
require coordinated index-thumb manipulation, capturing their
relative range of motion during each task. Specifically, sub-
jects completed eight tasks across three trials each: mahjong
tile rotation, USB flash drive extrusion, ratchet rotation, test
tube capping and uncapping, and clockwise/counterclockwise
rotation of the top and right faces of a Rubik’s cube. Because
each subject’s kinematic data defines the target poses, the
reachable workspace depends directly on hand size. Across
our seven subjects, index finger length had a range of 27 mm,
palm width 31 mm, and thumb length 19 mm.
Kinematic analysis: After collecting the human kinematic
data, we downsample the workspace using SE(3) Farthest
Point Sampling (FPS) to get a subset of poses with near-
uniform coverage of the original human workspace. Then, to
assess relative pose of the index finger with respect to the
thumb, we calculate the relative transform from the thumb
tip to the index tip [Fig. 4].
For a given exoskeleton design, we are interested if the
robot kinematics can achieve the same tip-to-tip relative poses
as observed in the human data set. Thus, we take the kinematic
chain of the exoskeleton, set the thumb tip as a fixed base,
then compute inverse kinematics using mink IK [16] for
the index tip to check if a specific relative pose is feasible
within a 1 mm position tolerance and 20○angular tolerance
of the fingertip midline axis (defined as the x-axis). We then
aggregate these results over the totality of the human tip-to-tip
workspace and assess a robot’s kinematic capability based
on what percentage of human tip-to-tip poses it is capable
of reproducing with low position and angular error.
Results are shown in Table III for DITTO as well as two
other current teleoperation exoskeleton designs. They shows
that DITTO reaches nearly the entire human thumb-to-index
workspace, with a mean success rate at or near 1.0 and a
mean x-axis orientation error of only 1.7○to 4.2○. Within the
same 1 mm position and 20○orientation bounds, DexUMI
and DOGlove reach at most 0.6 and 0.5, respectively, with
orientation errors 3× to 8× larger. All three systems achieve
high position-only success rates, indicating that the success
gap arises almost entirely from orientation: the anatomically
aligned joint axes of the DITTO leader allow it to match both
the position and orientation of natural fingertip poses. We
believe this plays an important role in the fact that DITTO
enables fast and high-quality data collection even for tasks
that leverage intrinsic DOFs of the hand.
VI. POLICY LEARNING RESULTS
Finally, we evaluate weather DITTO data-collection enables
autonomous policies for tasks requiring use of the intrinsic
hand DOFs, as well as regulation of contact forces with the
environment. We test these abilities for both data collection
modes offered by DITTO, teleoperation and handheld, as
well as combined datasets from both paradigms. For the
autonomous policies, we use standard Diffusion Policies
with a Transformer Architecture [17] using the relative pose
representation from [18].
A. Policies Trained with Teleoperation Datasets
We evaluate manipulation performance across unimanual
and bimanual dexterous tasks [Fig. 5]. Our results in Table
IV show that policies trained on DITTO-collected data
achieve high success rates across all tasks, showcasing the
effectiveness of our data collection platform. Notably, the
USB insertion task requires both in-hand manipulation and
extrinsic contact reasoning, demonstrating that our device
can capture the nuanced finger coordination needed for such
complex interactions. On bimanual tasks, our policies also
achieve high success rates, highlighting DITTO’s ability to
support coordinated two-hand manipulation and collect high-
quality demonstrations beyond the unimanual setting.
B. Policies Trained with Handheld and Combined Datasets
To validate our handheld data collection capability, we
evaluate and compare policies trained on handheld data,
teleoperated data, and various mixtures of the two. We
focus on a unimanual task requiring high finger-to-finger
coordination: rotating a test tube cap to loosen it, then
grasping and removing it without dropping it.
Our results show that for the rotate-and-remove subtask,
the policy trained on handheld data alone performs similarly
to those mixed with teleoperation data (small 5% margin of
difference), showing that handheld data captures the dexterous


Consecutive rotations
Inter-ﬁnger coordination
Finger-only, minimal wrist motion!
Mahjong Tile: Inter-ﬁnger reorientation
USB Drive: Controlled sliding
Rubik’s Cube: Multi-Axes Rotation
Key: Continuous rotation
Apply torque      Engage lock
Consecutive rotations about perpendicular axes
Fingertip motion
Object Motion
Slide out plug while maintaining grasp
Fig. 5: Learned policies for dexterous and contact-rich manipulation tasks. For unimanual tasks, we include: USB Drive
Insertion, which requires picking up and extending a retractable USB flash drive and then inserting it into a slot, Mahjong
Tile Flipping, where the robot reorients a tile through two sequential flips followed by placement into a target box, and Key
Rotation to engage a lock. For the bimanual task, we include Rubik’s Cube Rotation, which requires picking up and then
rotating two faces of a Rubik’s Cube using thumb-index finger manipulation. Videos at: https://ditto-robotics.github.io/
finger coordination needed for continuously rotating a cap.
For the retain-grasp-and-lift subtask, however, policies trained
on handheld data alone fail entirely. The primary failure mode
is a poor grasp before lifting, which leads to dropping the
object. Augmenting with a small amount of teleoperation data
(10 episodes) raises success to 70%, consistent with prior
work claiming handheld data alone is insufficient and that
some teleoperated demonstrations are needed [8]. Training
on teleoperation data alone further improves success by
20 percentage points. We hypothesize that the handheld-
only failure reflects an action mismatch: applying forces and
movement is performed by the user rather than the robot’s
actuators, whereas teleoperated demonstrations record robot-
native contact interactions. Overall, a small teleoperation
fraction recovers performance relative to handheld alone, but
teleoperation remains the stronger data source for this task
stage, highlighting the importance of capable teleoperation
interfaces.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS
In this work, we introduced DITTO, a dexterous interface
for transparent teleoperation. DITTO consists of an active 7-
DOF wearable thumb-to-index exoskeleton and a robot hand
with identical kinematic structure. The DITTO exoskeleton
can be used both in handheld data collection and leader-
follower teleoperation, in which case it is capable of rendering
joint-level force feedback back to the demonstrator. For both
paradigms, the data collected allows training of autonomous
manipulation policies executed on the follower robot. The
user study, kinematic analysis, and policy learning results
Ratchet
Cube
Cap
USB
Mahjong
System
Succ.
X-Err
Pos.
Succ.
X-Err
Pos.
Succ.
X-Err
Pos.
Succ.
X-Err
Pos.
Succ.
X-Err
Pos.
DITTO
1.0±0.0
4.2±1.6
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.1
4.0±2.2
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
3.0±0.9
1.0±0.0
0.8±0.2
1.7±0.7
0.9±0.1
1.0±0.0
3.4±1.1
1.0±0.0
DexUMI
0.1±0.2
32.1±8.1
1.0±0.0
0.3±0.3
28.2±9.3
1.0±0.0
0.6±0.4
17.8±7.9
1.0±0.0
0.1±0.1
31.2±10.7
0.4±0.1
0.2±0.3
30.6±12.5
0.8±0.1
Doglove
0.5±0.2
12.1±5.4
1.0±0.0
0.5±0.3
13.5±7.5
1.0±0.0
0.3±0.3
18.4±7.3
1.0±0.0
0.1±0.2
21.2±6.1
1.0±0.0
0.2±0.3
18.6±6.0
1.0±0.0
TABLE III: Kinematic workspace coverage across five manipulation tasks. Succ. denotes the fraction of sampled poses
satisfying the 1 mm position tolerance and orientation check. The orientation check requires the fingertip x-axis to lie
within 20° of the target axis and remain in the correct yz- hemisphere. X-Err is the mean x-axis angular error, and Pos. is
the position-only success rate. Values are mean, ±std over all trials and participants (n = 7). Cube averages four rotation
directions; Cap averages cap and uncap trials.


Unimanual Tasks
Stage
Success
Key Rotation (60 Demos, 180 Epochs)
Rotate key until lock engages
20/20
Mahjong Flipping (56 Demos, 250 Epochs)
Rotate twice
20/20
Pick and place
20/20
USB Insertion (55 Demos, 300 Epochs)
Pick up USB
20/20
Extend USB
19/20
Insert into slot
14/20
Bimanual Tasks
Stage
Success
Rubik’s Cube (59 Demos, 300 Epochs)
Rotate right face
18/20
Rotate top face
17/20
TABLE IV:
Task success rate for policies trained on
teleoperation data collected using DITTO.
Fig. 6: Test tube uncapping policy performance for data
mixing combinations of handheld and teleoperation demon-
strations. All policies trained with 50 demos for 250 epochs.
presented here support the following conclusions:
●DITTO matches human index-to-thumb tip-to-tip dexterity
very well (96% of poses used by seven human subjects
over five tasks), and better than comparable devices. A
human-like workspace is desirable both as a measure of
dexterity and to mitigate constraining an operator’s hand
during data collection.
●Joint-level force feedback, enabled by the 1:1 kinematic
mapping between the leader and the follower, improves
both the speed and quality of teleoperated demonstrations.
●Data collected by DITTO allows training of effective
autonomous policies that leverage intrinsic DOFs for
complex tasks (flipping, inserting, manipulating an object’s
internal DOFs), without regrasping or large wrist motions.
●DITTO allows both teleoperated and handheld data collec-
tion, with force feedback in both cases, and these two data
streams can be combined for efficient policy training.
The key limitations of this work span hardware and data
collection. Currently, DITTO is a high-DOF two-finger device.
Given the impressive capabilities of the human hand even
when using only a thumb-to-index grasp, we believe that
this is an avenue worthy of investigation. Nevertheless, the
absence of additional fingers and a palmar surface limits the
types of manipulation we can engage in. A natural extension
would incorporate these components, enabling richer grasp
taxonomies. Additionally, DITTO lacks tactile sensing, which
is ultimately necessary for policies to make accurate contact
decisions. Integrating tactile sensors remains an important
direction for future work.
On the data collection side, how to best leverage the
complementary nature of our two modalities remains an
open question. A promising direction is to use in-the-wild
collection for large-scale pretraining and teleoperation for
high-quality behavior alignment. While our experiments show
early evidence of the benefit of mixing these sources (Fig. 6),
understanding co-training requirements at scale, particularly
for Vision-Language-Action Models, is an important avenue
for future work.
REFERENCES
[1] Physical Intelligence et.al, “π0.5: a vision-language-action model with
open-world generalization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.
[2] J. Bjorck et.al, “Gr00t n1: An open foundation model for generalist
humanoid robots,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14734, 2025.
[3] Y. Qin et.al, “Anyteleop: A general vision-based dexterous robot arm-
hand teleoperation system,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.04577, 2023.
[4] Z.-H. Yin et.al, “Dexteritygen: Foundation controller for unprecedented
dexterity,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04307
[5] H. Zhang, S. Hu, Z. Yuan, and H. Xu, “DOGlove: Dexterous
Manipulation with a Low-Cost Open-Source Haptic Force Feedback
Glove,” in Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems, LosAngeles,
CA, USA, June 2025.
[6] Y. Dong, X. Liu, J. Wan, and Z. Deng, “Gex: Democratizing dexterity
with fully-actuated dexterous hand and exoskeleton glove,” 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.04982
[7] M. Xu et.al, “Dexumi: Using human hand as the universal manipulation
interface for dexterous manipulation,” in Conference on Robot Learning.
PMLR, 2025, pp. 437–459.
[8] H.-S. Fang et.al, “Dexop: A device for robotic transfer of dexterous
human manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.04441, 2025.
[9] A. Zhu et.al, “Dexexo: A wearability-first dexterous exoskeleton
for operator-agnostic demonstration and learning,” 2026. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.17323
[10] Z. Si, K. L. Zhang, Z. Temel, and O. Kroemer, “Tilde: Teleoperation
for dexterous in-hand manipulation learning with a deltahand,” in
Proceedings of (RSS) Robotics Science and Systems, March 2024.
[11] K. Calimbahin, J. Honma, Y.-T. Huang, L. Li, O. Hernandez, and M. C.
Yip, “The N2D haptic glove: A multi-finger glove for 2D directional
force feedback for contact rich manipulation.” [Online]. Available:
https://kaitlin-calimbahin.com/papers/Haptic Glove Paper.pdf
[12] J. Koh, H. Jung, N. Kim, W. Ko, and C. Nam, “Dex-mouse: A
low-cost portable and universal interface with force feedback for data
collection of dexterous robotic hands,” 2026. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.15013
[13] P. Wu, Y. Shentu, Z. Yi, X. Lin, and P. Abbeel, “GELLO: A
GEneraL, LOw-cost, and intuitive teleoperation framework for robot
manipulators.”
[14] T. Z. Zhao, V. Kumar, S. Levine, and C. Finn, “Learning fine-grained
bimanual manipulation with low-cost hardware.”
[15] A. L. Ladd et.al, “The thumb carpometacarpal joint: anatomy, hormones,
and biomechanics,” vol. 62, pp. 165–179.
[16] K. Zakka, “Mink: Python inverse kinematics based on MuJoCo,” Feb.
2026. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/kevinzakka/mink
[17] C. Chi et.al, “Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action
diffusion,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol. 44,
no. 10-11, pp. 1684–1704, 2025.
[18] C. Chi et. al, “Universal manipulation interface: In-the-wild robot
teaching without in-the-wild robots,” in Proceedings of Robotics:
Science and Systems (RSS), 2024.
