FoLD: Force-Informed Learning for Dexterous
Articulated Object Manipulation
Haowei Shen1, Tingai Li1, Yumeng Liu1,∗, Wenyuan Guang2,
Xuanze Yang1, Qing Fang1, Kai Xu2,3, Ligang Liu1, Ruizhen Hu4,∗
1University of Science and Technology of China
2Institute of AI for Industries, Chinese Academy of Sciences
3Jiangsu Key Laboratory of AI for Industries
4Shenzhen University
Fig. 1.
We present FoLD, a force-informed learning framework for dexterous manipulation of articulated objects from human demonstrations. FoLD uses
object-motion deviations to estimate virtual compensatory force fields that inform corrective hand actions, bringing object motion closer to the demonstration.
Abstract— Transferring human demonstrations to dexterous
robots remains challenging because differences in hand mor-
phology and contact dynamics often cause retargeted motions
to fail at producing the intended object behavior. We present
FoLD, a framework for learning dexterous manipulation of ar-
ticulated objects through explicit force guidance. FoLD compute
compensatory force fields from human demonstrations together
with the robot’s current interaction state, yielding a force prior
that promotes the demonstrated object motion. This force prior
informs a residual policy that adapts retargeted hand motions
to the contact requirements of the task. We evaluate FoLD on
a public benchmark for articulated object manipulation, where
it consistently outperforms state-of-the-art baselines across
tasks and embodiments. We further validate FoLD on real
dexterous robot platforms, demonstrating successful transfer
of human manipulation skills to robot execution. Here is the
link of our project page: https://gghgghgghgg.github.
io/FoLD-project-page/.
I. INTRODUCTION
Dexterous hands offer a general interface for interacting
with the physical world. Their rich kinematic structure en-
ables robots to reproduce the coordinated hand configurations
and finger motions involved in everyday manipulation [1].
An important application is the manipulation of articulated
objects, whose operation requires coordinated hand move-
ments to change the relative configuration of connected
∗Corresponding authors: Yumeng Liu (lym29@mail.ustc.edu.cn)
and Ruizhen Hu (ruizhen.hu@gmail.com).
object parts. Yet learning to manipulate articulated objects
is challenging due to the hand’s high-dimensional action
space and the motion constraints imposed by object joints.
Human demonstrations can reduce the exploration burden of
learning dexterous manipulation [2]. For articulated objects,
they capture how hand movements accompany changes in
object articulation throughout a task. Learning from such
demonstrations offers a scalable path toward dexterous skills
for operating articulated objects.
Despite this promise, transferring human demonstrations
to dexterous robots remains challenging. Human and robot
hands differ in morphology, joint structure, and motion range,
so kinematic retargeting can only provide an approximate
motion reference. For articulated objects, the constraints
imposed by object joints determine how contact interactions
translate into motion of individual parts. Small discrepancies
in a retargeted hand pose can therefore alter where contact
occurs and whether the interaction produces the intended
articulation. Early interaction errors can prevent the pol-
icy from progressing through the demonstrated sequence,
thereby compromising the realization of the intended ma-
nipulation function.
Early human-to-robot retargeting methods transfer human
hand motions to robot hands by matching joint configura-
tions or task-space keypoints [3]–[5]. While effective for
teleoperation and motion generation, these kinematics-centric
1
arXiv:2609.33551v1  [cs.RO]  27 Sep 2026


objectives do not account for object dynamics or manipula-
tion outcomes. Recent approaches therefore leverage recon-
structed hand–object trajectories to optimize physically fea-
sible motions or control policies [6]–[11]. DexMachina [10]
uses virtual object-level controllers to stabilize the reference
object trajectory during early policy optimization. However,
because this assistance acts directly on the object, it does not
specify how the robot hand should coordinate contact forces
to sustain the motion after the controller decays. Moving
closer to the contact interface, CHORD [11] compares the
wrench directions supported by human and robot contact
configurations and uses this representation to guide pol-
icy optimization. Although the policy observes the current
contact locations and force directions, the demonstration-
derived wrench-support representation serves as evaluative
supervision rather than state-conditioned mechanical guid-
ance for action generation. Such supervision evaluates the
quality of the resulting interaction, but leaves the desired
force adjustments implicit when the policy selects an action.
This motivates providing the policy with a description of how
contact forces could correct the current object-motion devi-
ation, making mechanical guidance available during action
prediction.
Our key insight is to express this guidance as a virtual
compensatory force field that informs residual action pre-
diction. The resulting residual actions adjust the robot hand
poses and contacts so that the object motion more closely fol-
lows the demonstration. We introduce FoLD (Force-Informed
Learning for Dexterous Articulated Object Manipulation),
a force-informed learning framework for dexterous manip-
ulation from human demonstrations. Starting from reference
actions produced by a hand imitator, FoLD estimates a
compensatory force field from object-motion deviations and
the contact regions available to the robot hands. This field
describes where and how forces could compensate for the
deviation from the demonstrated motion. We encode the
field into a latent representation and provide it to a residual
policy as an input for predicting corrections to the imitator’s
reference actions. Adding these residual actions adjusts the
hand poses and resulting contacts, allowing the policy to
learn how to realize the desired object motion through the
robot’s own interaction forces.
We validate FoLD on bimanual articulated object manipu-
lation using human demonstrations from the public ARCTIC
dataset [12]. Across the evaluated tasks, FoLD achieves state-
of-the-art performance over existing baselines. Ablation stud-
ies further confirm the importance of compensatory force-
field conditioning for effective policy learning. Moreover, by
training and evaluating FoLD on the same demonstrated tasks
with different robot hands, we show that its effectiveness
is consistent across embodiments. Together, these results
highlight the effectiveness of FoLD for dexterous articulated
object manipulation.
Our main contributions are:
• We introduce FoLD, a force-informed learning frame-
work for dexterous manipulation of articulated objects
from human demonstrations. FoLD learns to use virtual
compensatory force fields to correct retargeted hand
motions, bringing the resulting object motion closer to
the demonstration.
• We formulate a constrained inverse-mechanics problem
that infers compensatory force fields from human mo-
tion demonstrations and the current robot interaction
state, providing a physically plausible force prior to
inform residual policy learning.
• We achieve state-of-the-art performance on the evalu-
ated ARCTIC manipulation tasks. Through extensive
experiments across dexterous hand embodiments and
ablation studies, we demonstrate that force-informed
learning substantially improves the acquisition of dex-
terous manipulation skills.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Learning Manipulation from Human Demonstrations
Human demonstrations capture the coordinated hand mo-
tions underlying dexterous manipulation and provide su-
pervision for robot learning. Teleoperation-based imitation
collects robot actions directly but requires access to the
target hardware [5], [13]–[15]. Kinesthetic teaching col-
lects demonstrations with tactile feedback through direct
guidance of the robot hand [16]. Retargeting bridges dif-
ferent hand morphologies through relative fingertip posi-
tions [17], object-based synergy mappings [18], or shared
low-dimensional pose spaces [19]. For offline demonstra-
tions, visual reconstruction and retargeting turn human
videos into robot training references [6], [20], reducing
dependence on robot-specific data collection. However,
matching motion alone does not ensure that the robot
establishes the contacts needed to manipulate the object.
Task-oriented retargeting therefore incorporates manipula-
tion objectives [21], while physics-based methods opti-
mize or sample trajectories under simulated dynamics [7],
[22]. Contact-aware optimization recovers contact points
and forces from visual demonstrations [23]. Demonstration-
guided reinforcement learning uses motion and task rewards
to acquire feedback policies [8], [24], [25]. Adaptive ex-
ploration scopes accommodate noisy references and embod-
iment differences [26]. Residual learning further corrects
estimated hand poses [27] or adjusts a learned motion prior
during interaction [9]. FoLD complements these approaches
by estimating a compensatory force field from the current
object-motion deviation and conditioning a residual policy
on this field. The field specifies how forces could correct the
deviation, guiding adjustments to the hand-motion prior.
B. Manipulation of Articulated Objects
Articulated objects such as boxes, laptops, and scissors are
common in everyday manipulation and require coordinated
control of connected parts. Visual affordance approaches
predict contact locations and action or trajectory proposals
for moving articulated parts [28], [29]. These predictions
guide part actuation, but do not directly describe how two
dexterous hands should coordinate contacts to support and
manipulate a moving object. Human interaction datasets
2


provide examples of such coordination: ARCTIC focuses on
hinged-object manipulation [12], while OakInk2 includes ar-
ticulated objects within broader bimanual tasks [30]. Learn-
ing from these sequences requires translating the demon-
strated coordination into effective robot contacts. Reference-
tracking approaches combine motion and contact rewards
with virtual object assistance, enabling policies to practice
complete sequences before taking over the manipulation [10].
This eases exploration, but assistance applied directly to
the object leaves the required robot contact forces implicit.
Wrench-based contact rewards account for the forces and
torques that contacts can support, allowing human and robot
interactions to be compared despite different contact geome-
tries [11]. Such rewards evaluate contact capability; they do
not estimate compensatory forces for correcting the current
motion deviation. FoLD complements this supervision by
estimating a compensatory force field over the object surface
and providing it directly to the policy for corrective action
generation.
III. METHOD
A. Problem Formulation
Given robot and object models and a bimanual human
demonstration, we aim to train a policy πθ that retargets
human hand motions to robot hands while preserving the
demonstrated interaction, where θ denotes the policy pa-
rameters. At execution step t, the robot action is sampled
as at ∼πθ(· | st), where st denotes the environment
state, including the object and hand states. For notational
convenience, superscript ∗denotes demonstrated quantities
and j indexes reference frames. We write the demonstration
as
τ ref = {(h∗
j, q∗
j)}T −1
j=0 ,
(1)
where T is the sequence length, and h∗
j and q∗
j denote the
bimanual hand pose and object configuration. For both refer-
ence and executed motion, we define the object configuration
as follows:
qt = (pt, Rt, αt) ∈R3 × SO(3) × Rd,
(2)
where pt and Rt are the world-frame root position and
orientation, and αt contains the articulation coordinates (d =
1 for the hinged objects considered here).
B. Overview
Retargeting the demonstrated hand motion does not by
itself ensure that the object follows the desired trajectory.
Our key insight is to guide corrections to the hand actions
with a compensatory force field that describes where and
how forces should be applied to recover the demonstrated
object motion.
Inspired by ManipTrans [9], we first train a hand imitator
for each demonstration to retarget the hand motion while
penalizing hand–object penetration. During this training, the
object is prescribed to follow its demonstrated trajectory.
However, at rollout time, executing the hand actions pro-
duced by the imitator may cause the object state at the next
time step to deviate from the corresponding reference state
in the demonstration.
To compensate for this deviation, we compute a corrective
wrench from the difference between the current and reference
object states. We then estimate a compensatory force field
whose combined force and torque approximate this wrench,
restricting the force distribution to regions indicated by a
contact map computed from the current robot hand state.
The field is encoded into a latent representation that guides
the force-informed residual policy in predicting corrections
to the imitator’s reference actions, with the aim of recovering
the demonstrated object motion. The overall pipeline is
illustrated in Figure 2. We describe compensatory force-field
estimation in Sec. III-C, representation learning in Sec. III-D,
and learning of the force-informed residual policy in Sec. III-
E.
C. Compensatory Force-Field Estimation
Information about the spatial distribution of contact forces
can help a policy learn how to interact with an object to ac-
complish a task. For example, when opening a box, one hand
supports the base while the other applies force to the lid;
the distribution of these forces affects both object stability
and task success. Human demonstrations, however, provide
only kinematic information. We therefore explore whether a
suitable compensatory force field can be inferred from this
information to drive the object along the desired trajectory.
Specifically, we compute a target wrench from object-motion
deviations and a contact map from the current robot hand
state. The wrench specifies the overall corrective force and
torque, while the contact map constrains the regions of the
object surface over which forces can be allocated. We then
solve a regularized force-allocation problem within these
regions under normal-force and friction constraints.
1) Corrective Wrench: Given a frozen imitator, we roll
out a reference action at each execution step and compute a
corrective wrench to compensate for the resulting deviation
of the object state from the demonstration. We denote the
object root state by xt = (pt, Rt, vt, ωt), where vt and
ωt denote root linear and angular velocities. We index the
reference by episode progress and use the next frame in the
demonstration sequence as the target (ptar
t , Rtar
t ), with ref-
erence velocities (vtar
t , ωtar
t ) obtained by finite differences
over the control interval. We construct the command in the
world frame as
Fcmd
t
= kp(ptar
t
−pt) + kd(vtar
t
−vt),
τ cmd
t
= kR Log
 Rtar
t R⊤
t
∨+ kω(ωtar
t
−ωt),
(3)
where Log(·)∨returns a rotation vector and the gains set the
feedback strength. The pose terms drive the object toward
the reference, while the velocity terms account for how it
is already moving. We transform the corrective force and
torque from the world frame into the current object frame
and stack them into a wrench:
ewt =

R⊤
t Fcmd
t
R⊤
t τ cmd
t

∈R6.
(4)
3


Fig. 2.
Overview of FoLD. The imitator provides reference robot actions from a human demonstration. As the robot executes these actions, FoLD estimates
a compensatory force field from the resulting object-motion deviations and the current contact map. The field is encoded into a latent representation that
informs a residual policy, which corrects the reference actions to bring the object motion closer to the demonstration.
The first three components represent force, and the last
three represent torque. We then define wcmd
t
∈R6 as the
corrective wrench supplied to force allocation after limiting
each component:
wcmd
t,i
= min(wmax
i
, max(−wmax
i
, ewt,i)) ,
(5)
where i ∈{1, . . . , 6} and wmax
i
> 0 is the magnitude
limit for the corresponding force or torque component. Com-
ponents within [−wmax
i
, wmax
i
] remain unchanged, while
those outside are set to the nearest bound. Recomputing
this wrench at each control step makes the subsequent force
allocation responsive to execution deviations.
2) Anchor-Based Force Allocation: Given the corrective
wrench wcmd
t
and contact map Ht, we seek force-field
coefficients whose induced forces reproduce the corrective
wrench while remaining within the permitted contact regions.
We formulate this allocation as a constrained optimization
problem that balances wrench matching and force magnitude.
We represent the field at N anchors on the object surface.
Anchor k has position ct,k, inward unit normal nt,k, and part
label bk. Positions and normals are expressed in the object
frame. The contact map defines a surface region Rt and a
binary mask
χt,k = 1[ct,k ∈Rt],
k = 1, . . . , N,
(6)
which specifies whether anchor k is available for force
allocation.
The optimization variable is the coefficient vector ξt ∈
Rdξ, where dξ is the number of field coefficients. A basis
matrix Bt ∈R3N×dξ maps these coefficients to the stacked
anchor forces:
ft = Btξt,
ft,k = Bt,kξt,
(7)
where Bt,k contains the three rows corresponding to anchor
k. The resultant wrench is
GtBtξt =
N
X
k=1

ft,k
ct,k × ft,k

,
(8)
where Gt ∈R6×3N maps the anchor forces to total force
and torque, with torque measured about the origin of the
anchor coordinate frame.
We solve for the coefficients through
ˆξt = arg min
ξt
1
2
GtBtξt −wcmd
t
2
2 + λ
2 ∥Btξt∥2
2
s.t.
Bt,kξt = 0,
if χt,k = 0,
Bt,kξt ∈Pt,k,
if χt,k = 1.
(9)
The first term fits the combined force and torque to the
corrective wrench. Because multiple force distributions can
explain the same wrench, the second term penalizes large
forces, with λ > 0 controlling this trade-off. The first
constraint fixes forces outside the contact region to zero.
For the remaining anchors, Pt,k is the polyhedral set of
admissible forces: it enforces the normal-force bound 0 ≤
n⊤
t,kft,k ≤fmax and linear friction inequalities that limit
tangential loading according to the friction coefficient µ.
With a quadratic objective and linear constraints, Equa-
tion 9 is a convex quadratic program. As summarized in Al-
gorithm 1, we use OSQP [31] to solve for ˆξt and recover the
compensatory field as ˆft = Btˆξt. For the matrix construction
in Algorithm 1, we express each admissible-force set as
Pt,k = {f | lc
t,k ≤Ct,kf ≤uc
t,k}. The assembled QP
minimizes 1
2ξ⊤Qtξ + g⊤
t ξ subject to lt ≤Atξ ≤ut. We
use [c]×v = c × v and denote vertical block concatena-
tion by vstack. The complete force-field computation takes
approximately 60–120 ms per frame, with an overall update
rate of approximately 10–11 Hz in our implementation. This
allows the field to be updated online during policy training,
providing spatial force guidance that adapts to the current
hand-object interaction.
D. Compensatory Force-Field Representation Learning
The estimated compensatory force field contains a three-
dimensional force at each surface anchor, resulting in a high-
dimensional input for the force-informed residual policy. We
therefore use an encoder–decoder model to learn a low-
dimensional representation of the field through reconstruc-
tion.
For articulated objects, forces applied to different parts can
play distinct roles in the task. We therefore use a PointNet-
style encoder [32] that combines global and part-level fea-
tures to capture both the overall force distribution and how
4


Human
DexMachina
Hand-only Imitation
Ours
Fig. 3.
Qualitative results on mixer, ketchup-bottle, and notebook manipulation (top to bottom). From left to right: human demonstrations, DexMachina,
hand-only imitation, and FoLD, with two snapshots per group. Hand-only imitation uses only our pretrained imitator’s hand actions, with the object’s root
pose and articulation fixed to the demonstrated state at each frame.
Algorithm 1 Compensatory Force-Field Allocation
Require: Contact map Ht, wrench wcmd
t
, basis Bt, λ > 0; anchor
data {ct,k, Ct,k, lc
t,k, uc
t,k}N
k=1
Ensure: Compensatory force field ˆft
1: Rt ←ContactRegion(Ht)
2: for k = 1, . . . , N do
3:
χt,k ←1[ct,k ∈Rt]
4:
Gt,k ←
h
I3
[ct,k]×
i
5:
if χt,k = 0 then
6:
At,k ←Bt,k,
lt,k ←ut,k ←03
7:
else
8:
At,k ←Ct,kBt,k
9:
(lt,k, ut,k) ←(lc
t,k, uc
t,k)
10:
end if
11: end for
12: Gt ←[Gt,1 · · · Gt,N]
13: At ←vstackN
k=1 At,k
14: lt ←vstackN
k=1 lt,k,
ut ←vstackN
k=1 ut,k
15: Qt ←B⊤
t (G⊤
t Gt + λI3N)Bt
16: gt ←−B⊤
t G⊤
t wcmd
t
17: ˆξt ←OSQP(Qt, gt, At, lt, ut)
18: ˆft ←Btˆξt
19: return ˆft
forces are distributed across individual parts, producing a
compact latent representation:
zfield
t
= Eϕ

{ct,k, nt,k,ˆft,k, bk, mt,k}N
k=1

,
(10)
where ϕ denotes the encoder parameters and mt,k indicates
whether the force magnitude exceeds a small threshold. This
encoding provides a fixed-dimensional policy input that is
invariant to anchor ordering.
We train the encoder–decoder using compensatory force
fields generated offline from the kinematic demonstrations.
Each sample provides anchor forces and their corresponding
generalized force as reconstruction targets. A local decoder
reconstructs each anchor force from the latent vector and
anchor geometry, encouraging the encoding to preserve the
spatial force distribution. To also supervise the combined me-
chanical effect, an auxiliary head predicts the corresponding
generalized force. For the hinged objects considered here,
this seven-dimensional quantity comprises the root force and
torque together with the hinge torque. Both branches are used
only during representation training. We optimize
Lenc = Lforce + βwLwrench + βdLdirection,
(11)
where Lforce and Lwrench measure the reconstruction errors
of the anchor forces and the generalized force, respectively,
using SmoothL1 loss. The cosine loss Ldirection additionally
penalizes differences between the predicted and target force
directions. By training this encoder–decoder, we obtain a
compact latent representation of the compensatory force
field. Appendix A-B provides the feature aggregation and
pretraining details.
E. Force-informed Residual Policy
The compensatory force field indicates how contact forces
could compensate for deviations from the demonstrated
object motion. To translate this guidance into robot actions,
we condition a force-informed residual policy on the field
representation zfield
t
, alongside the current state and demon-
stration reference. The policy predicts corrections that are
added to the frozen imitator’s reference actions, allowing
force information to guide adjustments to the hand–object
interaction. The residual is scaled by s = 0.1 and initialized
to produce zero corrections; Appendix A-C gives the action
composition and architecture details.
We train the residual policy using proximal policy
optimization (PPO) [33]. The reward combines object-
root position, orientation, and articulation tracking with
hand-pose imitation, retargeted joint-reference tracking, and
position-based hand–object contact tracking, following Dex-
Machina [10]. FoLD additionally rewards frame-to-frame
consistency of wrist and fingertip motion with the demon-
stration. These terms encourage task completion while pre-
serving the demonstrated manipulation pattern, and contact-
force and action-magnitude penalties discourage excessive
contact forces and large control inputs. Reward definitions,
coefficients, and tracking scales are given in Appendix B-C
and Table VI.
5


During residual-policy training, we also adopt the virtual
object controller (VOC) curriculum from DexMachina [10].
The VOC initially assists the object in following the demon-
strated motion, with assistance progressively reduced to zero.
After VOC assistance reaches zero, we continue training
the residual policy with the VOC disabled. The VOC is
also disabled throughout evaluation, so object motion is pro-
duced entirely through the robot’s hand–object interaction.
Appendix B-D details the curriculum schedule.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
Our experiments evaluate FoLD’s ability to reproduce
human-demonstrated articulated-object manipulation across
robotic hands. Comparisons with DexMachina establish the
overall gains in task completion and motion tracking; inte-
gration with CHORD and controlled ablations examine the
additional value of compensatory force-field input. Physical
robot demonstrations further evaluate whether the generated
motions preserve the coordination needed to execute the
demonstrated tasks on hardware.
A. Experimental Setup
Tasks and embodiments. Our main simulation bench-
mark uses seven clips from ARCTIC [12], covering a box,
a ketchup bottle, a mixer, a notebook, and a waffle iron.
The clips contain 100–300 reference frames and include
both object-root motion and articulation. We compare FoLD
with DexMachina [10] on Inspire, Allegro, XHand, and
Schunk hands, training a separate policy for each hand–task–
method configuration. Within each comparison, the methods
share demonstrations, retargeted references, initial states,
and physical parameters. The clip definitions are provided
in Appendix D-A. We additionally evaluate force-informed
learning within CHORD [11] using the Sharpa Wave hand,
as detailed in Sec. IV-C.
Training and evaluation. The main experiments use
Genesis [34] and PPO [33] with 4,096 parallel environments
at 60 Hz. FoLD freezes its pretrained hand-motion imitator
and force-field encoder during residual-policy training. Dex-
Machina and FoLD use a virtual object controller (VOC)
curriculum and matched policy-training budgets. We select
the checkpoint with the highest recorded mean training
reward among those saved after VOC assistance reaches
zero. Quantitative evaluation uses deterministic actions with
environment randomization and the VOC disabled. Thus,
the reported object motion is produced entirely through
the robot’s hand–object interaction; the compensatory field
supplies information to the policy without applying forces
to the object. Appendix B gives the training stages, budgets,
rewards, and curriculum settings.
Metrics. We measure task completion, object-motion ac-
curacy, and contact quality. Following CHORD [11], success
rate (SR) is the completion length ratio L/T: L counts
consecutive frames before root-position error exceeds 15 cm
or root-rotation error exceeds 40◦, and T is the full evaluation
length. Mean root-position (cm), root-rotation (degrees), and
articulation (Joint, degrees) errors quantify motion accuracy
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF DEXMACHINA AND FOLD ACROSS ROBOTIC HANDS.
BOTH METHODS USE THE SAME 27 PAIRED HAND–TASK EVALUATIONS
(AGGREGATION DETAILS IN APPENDIX D-B). BEST RESULTS FOR EACH
HAND ARE SHOWN IN BOLD.
Hand
Method
SR ↑
Contact
Mean ↑
Pos.
(cm) ↓
Rot.
(◦) ↓
Joint
(◦) ↓
Inspire
DexMachina
0.511
0.154
52.27
42.65
34.26
Ours
0.700
0.248
18.19
23.28
20.20
Allegro
DexMachina
0.596
0.043
20.07
49.38
22.51
Ours
0.750
0.061
23.62
40.51
12.18
XHand
DexMachina
0.724
0.113
39.55
48.34
24.88
Ours
0.697
0.116
31.86
43.76
20.24
Schunk
DexMachina
0.588
0.034
34.47
45.66
44.49
Ours
0.968
0.101
0.91
6.52
5.37
Overall
DexMachina
0.606
0.088
36.67
46.54
31.06
Ours
0.772
0.133
19.30
29.33
14.83
over the full trajectory, including frames after a threshold
violation. Contact Mean measures agreement with demon-
strated contact locations in the DexMachina comparison.
For CHORD, Contact Wrench Support Mean (CWS Mean)
measures how well contacts support the force and torque
demands of the demonstrated motion. Higher contact scores
indicate better agreement or support within the respective
comparison. Per-hand results are macro-averages over tasks;
overall results weight all included hand–task pairs equally.
Appendix C-B provides the full definitions.
B. Comparison across Hand Embodiments
FoLD achieves higher overall task completion and more
accurate object motion than DexMachina (Table I). Over-
all SR increases from 0.606 to 0.772, accompanied by
lower root-position, root-rotation, and articulation errors. The
52.3% reduction in articulation error is particularly relevant
for these tasks: reproducing the demonstrated interaction
requires controlling the relative motion of object parts as
well as the object’s global pose. Higher Contact Mean further
indicates closer agreement with the demonstrated contact
pattern. Taken together, these results show that the gain
in completion is accompanied by better preservation of the
intended manipulation.
FoLD’s advantage over DexMachina extends across the
four evaluated hand embodiments. Contact consistency,
object-root rotation accuracy, and articulation accuracy im-
prove on every hand, showing that the method more faithfully
reproduces the demonstrated interaction across different hand
designs. This consistency supports the use of object-surface
force guidance for cross-embodiment manipulation: the field
describes the desired mechanical correction of the object,
while each hand-specific policy learns how to realize it
through its own finger motions and contacts. FoLD therefore
provides an effective way to adapt the same demonstrated
manipulation to multiple robotic hand embodiments.
We present qualitative results in Figure 3 on mixer,
ketchup-bottle, and notebook manipulation, comparing Dex-
Machina, hand-only imitation, and FoLD with the human
6


Human
Allegro Hand
Inspire Hand
Schunk Hand
XHand
Fig. 4.
Bimanual manipulation across hand embodiments. Human config-
urations appear on the left, followed by robot configurations learned with
FoLD.
Fig. 5.
Additional FoLD manipulation examples. Each group presents
three snapshots showing coordinated support and manipulation of articulated
object parts.
demonstrations. Hand-only imitation denotes the execution
of hand actions generated solely by our pretrained hand-
motion imitator, without residual corrections. In this refer-
ence, the object’s root pose and articulation are fixed to their
demonstrated values at each frame, visualizing the learned
hand-motion prior around a prescribed object trajectory.
DexMachina and FoLD manipulate a dynamic object through
hand contacts with the VOC disabled.
FoLD reproduces the demonstrated division of roles be-
tween the two hands using robot-specific finger configura-
tions. In the notebook example, one hand supports one cover
while the other manipulates the hinged cover, retaining the
intended interaction between the object parts. The different
finger placements illustrate how FoLD adapts the demon-
stration to the robot while preserving the manipulation goal.
Figure 4 shows this coordination realized by different hand
embodiments, and Figure 5 extends the qualitative examples
to additional articulated objects. These results provide visual
evidence that FoLD preserves the functional hand–object
relationships underlying the demonstrated manipulation.
C. Force-Informed Learning within CHORD
We further evaluate whether our force-field representation
can improve an existing contact-guided method. We augment
CHORD [11] with our compensatory force-field latent as
an additional policy input, forming CHORD + FoLD. This
integration retains CHORD’s native policy structure, rewards,
and training protocol, allowing us to assess the benefit of the
added force information. We compare both variants on five
demonstration sequences with the Sharpa Wave hand; imple-
mentation and evaluation details are provided in Appendix E.
TABLE II
COMPARISON OF CHORD AND CHORD + FOLD ON SHARPA-WAVE
DEXTEROUS HAND. VALUES ARE MEAN ± SAMPLE STANDARD
DEVIATION.
Method
SR ↑
CWS
Mean ↑
Pos.
(cm) ↓
Rot.
(◦) ↓
Joint
(◦) ↓
CHORD
0.392±0.315
0.351±0.242
32.90±29.47
43.58±38.03
21.92±23.45
CHORD + FoLD
0.397±0.314
0.344±0.225
20.19±17.92
33.60±30.40
22.17±24.00
Human
CHORD
CHORD + FoLD
Fig. 6.
Human demonstrations, CHORD, and CHORD + FoLD on
box, notebook, and laptop manipulation (top to bottom). These snapshots
illustrate hand configurations relative to the articulated object parts.
Table II shows that CHORD + FoLD reduces mean object-
root position and rotation errors by 38.6% and 22.9%,
respectively, relative to CHORD. These gains demonstrate
that our force-field input improves motion tracking even
when the policy already learns from contact wrench-space
guidance. The two forms of guidance serve complementary
roles: CHORD’s reward evaluates the mechanical support
provided by the contacts, while our field informs the policy
of the force adjustments that could correct the current object-
motion deviation. Providing this corrective information en-
ables more accurate reproduction of the demonstrated object
motion under the same learning objective. Figure 6 presents
qualitative comparisons on box, notebook, and laptop ma-
nipulation. Together, these results support the value of our
force-field representation as a policy input that can strengthen
an existing contact-guided learning framework.
D. Ablation Study
We evaluate the contribution of force-informed resid-
ual learning on Inspire using Box-200, Mixer-170, and
Notebook-147. All three configurations train a residual policy
on top of the same frozen imitator and share the residual
architecture and scale, rewards, and training budget. Starting
with neither VOC assistance nor force-field input, we first
add the VOC curriculum adopted from DexMachina [10],
then add the compensatory force-field input. The final config-
uration is FoLD as evaluated in the main comparison. Evalu-
ation is deterministic with the VOC disabled. Appendix D-C
gives the detailed configuration.
The VOC curriculum improves completion of the residual
baseline, raising SR from 0.848 to 1.000 in Table III.
7


TABLE III
COMPONENT ABLATION ON INSPIRE. CHECKMARKS AND CROSSES
INDICATE ENABLED AND DISABLED COMPONENTS, RESPECTIVELY. ALL
ROWS USE THE SAME FROZEN IMITATOR; THE LAST ROW IS FOLD AS
EVALUATED IN THE MAIN COMPARISON. BOLD INDICATES THE BEST
RESULT.
Residual
policy
VOC
curriculum
Force-field
input
SR ↑
Contact
Mean ↑
Pos.
(cm) ↓
Rot.
(◦) ↓
Joint
(◦) ↓
✓
✗
✗
0.848
0.300
1.04
11.33 11.99
✓
✓
✗
1.000
0.275
1.34
5.55
13.30
✓
✓
✓
1.000
0.351
0.84
7.69
13.76
With the VOC curriculum held fixed, force-informed resid-
ual learning improves contact consistency and root-position
accuracy. Adding the force-field input raises Contact Mean
from 0.275 to 0.351 and reduces position error by 37.3%,
while retaining SR = 1.000. With the rewards and training
setup held fixed, this comparison isolates the benefit of
compensatory force-field conditioning: it supplies correc-
tive information that helps the residual policy reproduce
the demonstrated contact pattern and object position more
accurately, beyond the completion already achieved with
curriculum assistance.
E. Real-Robot Deployment
We validate the physical executability of FoLD-generated
manipulation motions on two Franka Research 3 arms
equipped with Inspire RH56-series hands. Starting from in-
house human videos reconstructed with ArtHOI [35] and
scanned object meshes, FoLD generates robot-hand trajecto-
ries in simulation. Inverse kinematics in Isaac Lab [36] maps
these hand targets to arm trajectories, which are executed
together with the hand motions through open-loop replay.
Appendix F provides the deployment details.
The generated trajectories successfully close a laptop and
fold headphones, as shown in Figure 7. For the laptop,
one hand stabilizes the base while the other moves the
screen; for the headphones, the hands coordinate the motion
of the connected parts during folding. These executions
provide physical evidence that FoLD preserves the division
of support and manipulation roles in the human demon-
stration while adapting the finger motions to robot hands.
The intended changes in object articulation are realized on
hardware, demonstrating the practical value of FoLD for
converting human demonstrations into executable bimanual
manipulation trajectories. Additional examples and failure
cases are provided in the accompanying video.
V. CONCLUSION
We presented FoLD, a framework that uses explicit force
guidance to retarget human demonstrations to dexterous
robots for articulated-object manipulation. By conditioning a
residual policy on compensatory force fields, FoLD connects
the desired object motion to the mechanical adjustments
needed during robot execution. Experiments across multiple
Human
Demo
Robot
Deployment
Human
Demo
Robot
Deployment
Fig. 7.
Real-robot demonstrations of laptop closing (upper two rows)
and headphone folding (lower two rows). Each task pairs the human
demonstration with open-loop replay of the FoLD-generated trajectory on
two FR3 arms with Inspire hands.
hand embodiments show improved aggregate task comple-
tion and object tracking, while real-robot demonstrations
show that the generated motions can be physically executed.
Together, these results highlight the value of force-informed
learning for adapting human manipulation skills to dexterous
robots.
Despite these promising results, FoLD has several limi-
tations. Our current formulation is state-based and relies on
accurate reconstructions of human hand–object interactions.
Each policy is also trained for a single object–task pair, limit-
ing generalization. In future work, we will explore extending
FoLD to visuomotor policy learning on real robots, aiming
to improve robustness and generalization across objects and
tasks.
REFERENCES
[1] A. M. Okamura, N. Smaby, and M. R. Cutkosky, “An overview of
dexterous manipulation,” in Proceedings 2000 ICRA. Millennium Con-
ference. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation.
Symposia Proceedings (Cat. No. 00CH37065), vol. 1.
IEEE, 2000,
pp. 255–262.
[2] A. Rajeswaran, V. Kumar, A. Gupta, G. Vezzani, J. Schulman,
E. Todorov, and S. Levine, “Learning complex dexterous manipulation
with deep reinforcement learning and demonstrations,” in Robotics:
Science and Systems, 2018.
[3] A. Handa, K. Van Wyk, W. Yang, J. Liang, Y.-W. Chao, Q. Wan,
S. Birchfield, N. Ratliff, and D. Fox, “Dexpilot: Vision-based tele-
operation of dexterous robotic hand-arm system,” in 2020 IEEE
international conference on robotics and automation (ICRA).
IEEE,
2020, pp. 9164–9170.
[4] A. Sivakumar, K. Shaw, and D. Pathak, “Robotic telekinesis: Learning
a robotic hand imitator by watching humans on YouTube,” in Robotics:
Science and Systems, 2022.
[5] Y. Qin, W. Yang, B. Huang, K. Van Wyk, H. Su, X. Wang, Y.-W. Chao,
and D. Fox, “Anyteleop: A general vision-based dexterous robot arm-
hand teleoperation system,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.04577, 2023.
[6] Y. Qin, Y.-H. Wu, S. Liu, H. Jiang, R. Yang, Y. Fu, and X. Wang,
“DexMV: Imitation learning for dexterous manipulation from human
videos,” in European Conference on Computer Vision, 2022.
[7] X. Liu, K. Lyu, J. Zhang, T. Du, and L. Yi, “Parameterized quasi-
physical simulators for dexterous manipulations transfer,” in European
Conference on Computer Vision, 2024, pp. 164–182.
[8] X. Liu, J. Adalibieke, Q. Han, Y. Qin, and L. Yi, “DexTrack: Towards
generalizable neural tracking control for dexterous manipulation from
human references,” in International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations, 2025.
[9] K. Li, P. Li, T. Liu, Y. Li, and S. Huang, “Maniptrans: Efficient dex-
terous bimanual manipulation transfer via residual learning,” in 2025
8


IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR).
IEEE, 2025, pp. 6991–7003.
[10] M. Zhao, Y. Hou, D. Fox, Y. Narang, A. Mandlekar, and S. Song,
“DexMachina: Functional retargeting for bimanual dexterous manip-
ulation,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine
Learning, 2026.
[11] X. Zhu, Z. Liu, S. Jain, C. Li, M. Noori, M. A. Lin, H. Zhao,
J. Welsh, M. Verghese, W. Liu, T. Wang, X. Da, Z. Luo, V. Kulkarni,
N. Bhatti, Y. Zhu, L. Fan, B. Wen, D. Xu, S. Pouya, and
Y. Chang, “Learning dexterous manipulation using contact wrench
guidance from human demonstration,” 2026. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.00033
[12] Z. Fan, O. Taheri, D. Tzionas, M. Kocabas, M. Kaufmann, M. J. Black,
and O. Hilliges, “ARCTIC: A dataset for dexterous bimanual hand–
object manipulation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023, pp. 12 943–12 954.
[13] S. P. Arunachalam, I. G¨uzey, S. Chintala, and L. Pinto, “Holo-Dex:
Teaching dexterity with immersive mixed reality,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2023,
pp. 5962–5969.
[14] Y. Liu, Y. Yang, Y. Wang, X. Wu, J. Wang, Y. Yao, S. Schwertfeger,
S.
Yang,
W.
Wang,
J.
Yu,
X.
He,
and
Y.
Ma,
“Realdex:
towards
human-like
grasping
for
robotic
dexterous
hand,”
in
Proceedings of the Thirty-Third International Joint Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, ser. IJCAI ’24, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.24963/ijcai.2024/758
[15] S. P. Arunachalam, S. Silwal, B. Evans, and L. Pinto, “Dexterous im-
itation made easy: A learning-based framework for efficient dexterous
manipulation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation, 2023, pp. 5954–5961.
[16] D. Zhang, C. Yuan, C. Wen, H. Zhang, J. Zhao, and Y. Gao, “KineDex:
Learning tactile-informed visuomotor policies via kinesthetic teaching
for dexterous manipulation,” in Proceedings of the Conference on
Robot Learning, 2025, pp. 4123–4138.
[17] H. Wang, K. H. Low, F. Gong, and M. Y. Wang, “Relative position-
based mapping for telemanipulation of dexterous robot hands,” in
IEEE Conference on Robotics, Automation and Mechatronics, 2004,
pp. 19–24.
[18] G. Gioioso, G. Salvietti, M. Malvezzi, and D. Prattichizzo, “Mapping
synergies from human to robotic hands with dissimilar kinematics:
An approach in the object domain,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics,
vol. 29, no. 4, pp. 825–837, 2013.
[19] C. Meeker, T. Rasmussen, and M. Ciocarlie, “Intuitive hand teleoper-
ation by novice operators using a continuous teleoperation subspace,”
in IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2018.
[20] Y. Liu, S. Cheng, X. Yin, W. C. Shin, A. Cueva, Y. Yang,
Z. Chen, C. Zhang, and D. Xu, “EgoEngine: From egocentric human
videos to high-fidelity dexterous robot demonstrations,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2606.12604, 2026.
[21] D. Antotsiou, G. Garcia-Hernando, and T.-K. Kim, “Task-oriented
hand motion retargeting for dexterous manipulation imitation,” in Pro-
ceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision Workshops,
2018, pp. 287–301.
[22] C. Pan, C. Wang, H. Qi, Z. Liu, H. Bharadhwaj, A. Sharma, T. Wu,
G. Shi, J. Malik, and F. R. Hogan, “SPIDER: Scalable physics-
informed dexterous retargeting,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.09484,
2025.
[23] X. Zhu, J. Ke, Z. Xu, Z. Sun, B. Bai, J. Lv, Q. Liu, Y. Zeng, Q. Ye,
C. Lu, M. Tomizuka, and L. Shao, “Diff-LfD: Contact-aware model-
based learning from visual demonstration for robotic manipulation via
differentiable physics-based simulation and rendering,” in Proceedings
of the Conference on Robot Learning, 2023, pp. 499–512.
[24] Y. Chen, C. Wang, Y. Yang, and C. K. Liu, “Object-centric dexterous
manipulation from human motion data,” in Proceedings of The 8th
Conference on Robot Learning, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, vol. 270, 2025, pp. 3828–3846.
[25] T. G. W. Lum, O. Y. Lee, C. K. Liu, and J. Bohg, “Crossing the
human–robot embodiment gap with sim-to-real RL using one human
demonstration,” in Proceedings of the Conference on Robot Learning,
2025, pp. 4418–4441.
[26] S. Xu, Y.-W. Chao, L. Bian, A. Mousavian, Y.-X. Wang, L. Gui,
and W. Yang, “Dexplore: Scalable neural control for dexterous ma-
nipulation from reference scoped exploration,” in Proceedings of the
Conference on Robot Learning, 2025, pp. 2184–2199.
[27] G. Garcia-Hernando, E. Johns, and T.-K. Kim, “Physics-based dexter-
ous manipulations with estimated hand poses and residual reinforce-
ment learning,” in IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems, 2020, pp. 9561–9568.
[28] K. Mo, L. J. Guibas, M. Mukadam, A. Gupta, and S. Tulsiani,
“Where2Act: From pixels to actions for articulated 3D objects,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer
Vision, 2021, pp. 6813–6823.
[29] R. Wu, Y. Zhao, K. Mo, Z. Guo, Y. Wang, T. Wu, Q. Fan,
X. Chen, L. J. Guibas, and H. Dong, “VAT-Mart: Learning visual
action trajectory proposals for manipulating 3D articulated objects,”
in International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
[30] X. Zhan, L. Yang, Y. Zhao, K. Mao, H. Xu, Z. Lin, K. Li, and C. Lu,
“OakInk2: A dataset of bimanual hands–object manipulation in com-
plex task completion,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024, pp. 445–456.
[31] B. Stellato, G. Banjac, P. Goulart, A. Bemporad, and S. Boyd, “Osqp:
an operator splitting solver for quadratic programs,” Mathematical
Programming Computation, vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 637–672, 2020.
[32] C. R. Qi, H. Su, K. Mo, and L. J. Guibas, “PointNet: Deep learning
on point sets for 3D classification and segmentation,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2017. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00593
[33] J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov,
“Proximal
policy
optimization
algorithms,”
arXiv
preprint
arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
[34] Genesis Authors, “Genesis: A generative and universal physics
engine for robotics and beyond,” Dec. 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/Genesis-Embodied-AI/genesis-world
[35] Z. Wang, Z. Zhang, Y. Wang, H. Li, and W. Zuo, “ArtHOI:
Taming foundation models for monocular 4D reconstruction of hand-
articulated-object interactions,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.25791,
2026. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.25791
[36] M. Mittal, P. Roth, J. Tigue, A. Richard, O. Zhang, P. Du
et al., “Isaac Lab: A GPU-accelerated simulation framework for
multi-modal robot learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.04831, 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.04831
[37] D. Makoviichuk and V. Makoviychuk, “rl-games: A high-performance
framework for reinforcement learning,” GitHub repository, May 2021.
[Online]. Available: https://github.com/Denys88/rl games
[38] J. Schulman, P. Moritz, S. Levine, M. Jordan, and P. Abbeel,
“High-dimensional continuous control using generalized advantage
estimation,”
arXiv
preprint
arXiv:1506.02438,
2015.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.02438
9


APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A. Online Compensatory Force-Field Construction
At each compensatory force-field update, we compute a
corrective object wrench from the difference between the
current object state and the next reference state. The wrench
is expressed in the object-aligned frame and approximately
distributed over a set of precomputed surface anchors. The
input contact map is converted to a binary mask over the
anchors. Anchors marked zero have their force fixed to zero
and contribute neither force nor torque to the wrench fit.
We solve the resulting masked coefficient problem using
OSQP [31], as detailed in Algorithm 1. For articulated
objects, the cached anchor geometry follows the reference
articulation at the corresponding episode index.
The resulting compensatory forces at the anchors are
used only to construct the policy conditioning input. They
are not directly applied to the simulated object and should
not be interpreted as measured robot contact forces. The
online compensatory force-field parameters are summarized
in Table IV.
TABLE IV
ONLINE COMPENSATORY FORCE-FIELD CONSTRUCTION PARAMETERS.
Parameter
Value
Position proportional gain kp
200
Position derivative gain kd
20
Rotation proportional gain kR
20
Rotation derivative gain kω
2
Force command scale
25 N
Torque command scale
3 N m
Componentwise command limit
5
Friction coefficient µ
0.5
Normal-force limit fmax
100 N
Regularization coefficient λ
10−4
B. Compensatory Force-Field Encoding
A separate compensatory force-field encoder is trained
for each manipulation task. Each encoder is pretrained for
300 epochs on offline compensatory force-field solutions and
then frozen throughout policy training. The encoder maps
the anchor-wise field, including anchor positions, surface
normals, allocated forces, activity indicators, and object-part
identities, to a 128-dimensional latent vector.
The encoder follows the shared per-point feature extraction
and symmetric aggregation of PointNet [32]. Each anchor
feature also includes the log-transformed force magnitude
and a learned object-part embedding. We concatenate mean,
max, and force-magnitude-weighted mean pooling features
computed globally and separately for each object part, then
map the pooled features to the latent vector. This aggregation
preserves both the overall force distribution and its allocation
across articulated parts while remaining invariant to anchor
ordering.
For articulated objects, the offline generalized-force target
includes an additional articulation torque, whereas online
field construction uses a six-dimensional corrective root
wrench. Both stages use the same anchor-wise field represen-
tation. The compensatory force-field latent is provided to the
force-informed residual policy as an additional observation
and does not receive a separate compensatory force-field
reward.
C. Force-informed Residual Policy
The hand-motion imitator and force-informed residual
policy use separate feedforward encoders for semantic ob-
servation fields. The imitator receives the native robot–object
observation, while the force-informed residual policy addi-
tionally receives the 128-dimensional compensatory force-
field latent. No separate recurrent history encoder is used.
The final action mean is
µt = clip
 πimit(ot) + s πres(ot, zfield
t
), −1, 1

,
(12)
where the residual scale is s = 0.1. The imitator is
frozen during residual learning, and the output layer of the
force-informed residual policy is initialized to zero. Residual
training therefore starts from the action mean produced by
the pretrained imitator.
APPENDIX B
TRAINING CONFIGURATION
A. Simulation and PPO
The main DexMachina and FoLD experiments use Gene-
sis [34] for simulation and PPO [33] for policy optimization,
implemented with RL Games [37]. Advantages are computed
using generalized advantage estimation (GAE) [38]. The
simulator advances at 60 Hz, and the policy produces one
action at every simulation step. Each control step contains
two physics substeps. The shared PPO configuration is
summarized in Table V.
TABLE V
PPO AND SIMULATION CONFIGURATION USED IN THE DEXMACHINA
AND FOLD EXPERIMENTS.
Parameter
Value
Parallel environments
4096
Rollout horizon
16
Learning rate
3 × 10−4
PPO mini-epochs
5
Minibatch size
32768
Discount factor γ
0.99
GAE coefficient λGAE
0.95
PPO clipping parameter
0.2
Maximum gradient norm
1.0
Entropy coefficient
0
Control frequency
60 Hz
Physics substeps
2
We train one policy for each hand–task–method config-
uration. Consequently, the reported DexMachina and FoLD
results do not estimate uncertainty over independent training
seeds.
10


B. Training Stages and Budgets
The hand-motion imitator is trained independently for each
hand–task configuration for 1,000 epochs. The task-specific
compensatory force-field encoder is trained for 300 epochs
and remains frozen during training of the force-informed
residual policy.
For both DexMachina and FoLD, clips containing at most
200 frames are trained for at most 5,000 epochs. Longer
clips are trained for at most 10,000 epochs. For these two
clip-length groups, VOC assistance is forcibly set to zero
at epoch 4,000 and epoch 9,000, respectively, if it has not
already reached zero through the automatic curriculum.
If VOC assistance reaches zero earlier, policy training
continues for at most another 1,500 epochs, subject to the
corresponding overall training budget. If e0 is the first zero-
assistance epoch, the stopping epoch satisfies
estop = min(e0 + 1500, emax),
(13)
where emax = 5000 for clips of at most 200 frames and
emax = 10000 for longer clips.
C. Reward Configuration
This subsection describes the full baseline policy training
and FoLD’s stage-2 force-informed residual-policy training.
In particular, the action-penalty coefficient is 0.01 for both
methods; these coefficients do not describe stage-1 hand-
imitator pretraining.
Following DexMachina [10], both methods use the same
object-tracking,
hand-imitation,
joint-reference,
position-
based contact, and control terms. FoLD additionally uses a
frame-to-frame hand-motion consistency term. The compen-
satory force-field embedding itself is only a policy observa-
tion and has no direct reward term.
The total reward is a weighted sum of the tracking and
imitation terms, minus the penalty terms, with coefficients
in Table VI. Object tracking combines exponential rewards
for root position, root orientation, and articulation. Hand-
pose imitation compares wrist poses and fingertip positions
with the demonstration, while joint-reference tracking com-
pares robot joint positions with the retargeted reference. The
contact term matches contact-point locations for each object
part. FoLD’s motion-consistency term compares consecutive-
frame fingertip displacements, wrist translations, and wrist
rotation magnitudes with their demonstrated counterparts.
The high-contact-force penalty penalizes contact-force mag-
nitudes above a threshold, and the action penalty is based on
the mean squared action magnitude.
The object-tracking reward uses exponential scales of 10,
1, and 5 for root-position, root-rotation, and articulation
errors, respectively. The position-based contact reward uses
a contact scale of 10.
D. VOC Curriculum
The virtual object controller begins with position gain
kp = 80, velocity gain kv
= 5, and force range 50.
Curriculum statistics are accumulated over a 30-episode
TABLE VI
REWARD COEFFICIENTS FOR THE DEXMACHINA BASELINE AND FOLD
STAGE-2 RESIDUAL-POLICY TRAINING.
Term
DexMachina FoLD
Object tracking
1.0
1.0
Hand-pose imitation
0.3
0.3
Frame-to-frame motion consistency
0.0
0.1
Joint-reference tracking
0.3
0.3
Position-based contact tracking
3.0
3.0
High-contact-force penalty
0.1
0.1
Action penalty
0.01
0.01
Direct force-field reward
0.0
0.0
deque after an initial waiting period of 100 epochs. A regular
gain reduction requires
¯rtask ≥0.6,
¯rcon ≥0.01,
¯rimi ≥0.01,
¯rbc ≥0.01,
(14)
together with an average episode length of at least T −
2, where T is the clip length. Position and velocity gains
use upper and lower sampling-bound ratios of 0.9 and 0.8
after a successful curriculum update. The force-range bound
remains fixed during the regular curriculum and is disabled
together with the VOC at the forced zero-assistance epoch.
The curriculum uses an episode-length rollback threshold
of 80 and a minimum rollback interval of 500 epochs. The
forced zero-assistance schedule in Sec. B-B guarantees that
all selected policies receive a period of training without VOC
assistance.
APPENDIX C
EVALUATION PROTOCOL
A. Zero-Assistance Evaluation
All DexMachina, FoLD, and component-ablation policies
are evaluated with the virtual object controller completely
disabled:
kVOC
p
= 0,
kVOC
v
= 0,
f VOC
range = 0.
(15)
Paired methods use identical clips, retargeted references,
initial states, physical parameters, and termination criteria.
Environment randomization is disabled, and deterministic
policy actions are used.
Checkpoint selection is restricted to saved checkpoints ob-
tained after VOC assistance has reached zero. Among these
checkpoints, we select the checkpoint with the highest mean
episode reward recorded during training and subsequently
evaluate it under the same zero-assistance condition.
B. Evaluation Metrics
Let Ti denote the number of evaluated post-action samples
in rollout i. A frame satisfies the object-tracking criterion
when
epos
i,t ≤0.15 m
and
erot
i,t ≤40◦.
(16)
11


Let Li be the number of consecutive samples completed
before the first violation of either threshold. If no violation
occurs, we set Li = Ti. We define the success rate used
in our experiments as the normalized completed trajectory
length:
SRi = Li
Ti
.
(17)
A complete rollout therefore obtains SR = 1, whereas a
rollout that loses object tracking early receives a proportion-
ally smaller score.
Position error is the Euclidean distance between the
achieved and reference object-root positions. Rotation error
is the geodesic angular distance between the achieved and
reference object-root orientations. Joint error is the absolute
difference between achieved and reference object articulation
angles. These errors are averaged over the complete eval-
uated trajectory and reported in centimeters, degrees, and
degrees, respectively.
For the DexMachina comparison and component ablation,
Contact Mean is the temporal mean of the recorded position-
based contact reward rcon. For the CHORD comparison,
CWS Mean is the temporal mean of CHORD’s Contact
Wrench Support (CWS) reward. The two contact rewards use
different definitions and numerical scales and are therefore
comparable only between methods within the same table.
C. Macro-Averaging
For each hand, we first compute each metric independently
on every task and then take an unweighted macro-average
over tasks. Short and long clips therefore receive equal
weight. The overall four-hand result is an unweighted macro-
average over all included hand–task cells rather than an
average weighted by clip length:
¯mh =
1
|Dh|
X
d∈Dh
mh,d,
¯mall = 1
|V|
X
(h,d)∈V
mh,d, (18)
where Dh is the set of tasks evaluated for hand h, and V
is the set of included hand–task cells.
APPENDIX D
TASKS AND DEMONSTRATIONS
A. DexMachina Comparison
The DexMachina comparison uses the same seven ARC-
TIC clips for Inspire, Allegro, XHand, and Schunk. Within
every hand–task cell, DexMachina and FoLD share the same
temporal range, retargeted reference, initial state, and phys-
ical configuration. The complete task suite contains 1,670
reference frames per hand before exclusions.
Ketchup-100 and Ketchup-300 are different temporal
crops of the same ARCTIC demonstration. Mixer-170 and
Mixer-300 are defined similarly. Box uses the original para
retargeted reference, while all remaining clips use the tem-
porally repaired temporal v1 references.
The official DexMachina release does not provide com-
plete frame-level mappings for all reported clips. We there-
fore matched the Mixer and Waffleiron sequences to the
released qualitative videos according to task identity and
motion content. The same selected sequences are used for
both compared methods.
B. Numerically Divergent Evaluation Case
The complete evaluation suite contains 28 hand–task cells,
comprising seven tasks for each of four hand embodiments.
On Schunk–Ketchup-300, the DexMachina rollout under-
went numerical divergence. In the raw aggregate statistics,
the object-position and articulation errors reached approxi-
mately 106 and 1012, respectively. Directly including these
values would dominate the arithmetic means and make the
aggregate tracking errors uninformative.
We therefore exclude Schunk–Ketchup-300 from the ag-
gregate results. To preserve a strictly paired comparison, the
corresponding FoLD cell is excluded as well. All metrics
in Table I are consequently computed over the same 27
hand–task cells. The exclusion is applied identically to both
methods.
C. Component Ablation
The component ablation uses the Inspire hand and
three tasks: Box-200, Mixer-170, and Notebook-147 (refer-
ence frames [253, 400)). All variants share the same task-
specific motion-prior checkpoint, semantic residual archi-
tecture, residual scale, reward configuration, and training
budget. All variants train a residual policy on top of the
frozen imitator.
The three rows of Table III correspond to the following
configurations. VOC curriculum refers to assistance during
training, as described in Appendix B-D.
• The first row uses neither VOC training assistance nor
compensatory force-field input.
• The second row uses VOC assistance during residual-
policy training but omits the force-field input.
• The third row uses the same VOC curriculum and ad-
ditionally provides the 128-dimensional compensatory
force-field latent to the residual policy. This is FoLD as
evaluated in the DexMachina comparison.
The reported results are unweighted macro-averages over
the three tasks. The comparison between the second and third
rows isolates the incremental contribution of compensatory
force-field conditioning.
APPENDIX E
CHORD INTEGRATION
CHORD and CHORD + FoLD use identical rewards, ac-
tion mappings, VOC schedules, optimization settings, train-
ing budgets, and evaluation protocols. The only difference
is that CHORD + FoLD appends the task-specific 128-
dimensional compensatory force-field embedding to the pol-
icy observation and adjusts the corresponding network input
dimension. The integration retains CHORD’s native residual
control relative to reference wrist and finger targets. The
12


TABLE VII
ARCTIC DEMONSTRATIONS USED IN THE FOUR-HAND DEXMACHINA COMPARISON. FRAME RANGES USE HALF-OPEN INTERVALS.
Task
Training identifier
ARCTIC sequence
Frame range
Length
Ketchup-100
ketchup-30-130-s01-use 01
s01/use 01
[30, 130)
100
Box-200
box-30-230-s01-use 01
s01/use 01
[30, 230)
200
Mixer-170
mixer-30-200-s01-use 01
s01/use 01
[30, 200)
170
Ketchup-300
ketchup-30-330-s01-use 01
s01/use 01
[30, 330)
300
Mixer-300
mixer-30-330-s01-use 01
s01/use 01
[30, 330)
300
Notebook-300
notebook-30-330-s02-use 01
s02/use 01
[30, 330)
300
Waffleiron-300
waffleiron-30-330-s01-use 01
s01/use 01
[30, 330)
300
TABLE VIII
COMPLETE SEQUENCES USED IN THE CHORD COMPARISON.
Sequence
Source frames
Eval. states
Metric samples
s01 box use 01
889
1184
1183
s07 box grab 01
725
965
964
s01 notebook use 01
669
890
889
s01 laptop use 01
653
869
868
s01 waffleiron use 01
605
805
804
pretrained hand-motion imitator used in the DexMachina-
based FoLD pipeline is not used in this integration.
Both variants follow the original CHORD training con-
figuration and are trained for 12,000 epochs. Checkpoint
selection is restricted to checkpoints obtained after VOC
assistance has reached zero. Among these checkpoints, we
select the checkpoint with the highest recorded mean training
reward.
The complete evaluation suite uses the five sequences
listed in Table VIII. No additional temporal cropping is
applied. The source demonstrations are recorded at 30 Hz.
Evaluation runs at 20 Hz with motion speed = 0.5.
The saved state trajectories include the initial state, whereas
rewards and tracking metrics are computed from post-action
samples. Each trajectory therefore contains one more saved
state than metric sample.
For each method and sequence, we evaluate the same se-
lected checkpoint using five evaluation seeds. The results can
differ across seeds. We first average each metric over the five
seeds for each sequence and then compute an unweighted
macro-average over all five sequences: box-use, box-grab,
notebook, laptop, and waffleiron. All five sequences receive
equal weight regardless of trajectory length. This aggregation
defines the comparison in Table II.
The complete CHORD evaluation contains
5 sequences×2 methods×5 evaluation seeds = 50 rollouts.
(19)
The main table reports these means together with sample
standard deviations over the 25 task–rollout evaluations
per method. These standard deviations describe variation
across tasks and evaluation rollouts, not across independently
trained policies; we do not claim statistical significance.
APPENDIX F
QUALITATIVE REAL-ROBOT DEMONSTRATIONS
Our physical platform consists of two Franka Research
3 (FR3) manipulators, each with seven degrees of freedom,
and a pair of Inspire Robots RH56-series dexterous hands.
The associated link-mesh assets correspond to the RH56DFX
variant. The mounting is crossed: the robot’s left arm carries
the right-hand unit, while the right arm carries the left-hand
unit.
The real-robot demonstrations use two manipulation se-
quences reconstructed from our in-house videos:
• folding a pair of headphones; and
• closing a laptop screen.
For each task, the complete FoLD policy first generates
a bimanual robot trajectory in simulation. Before physical
execution, we perform an inverse-kinematics reachability
check to determine a suitable placement of the object. The
generated trajectory itself is not manually modified and is
subsequently executed through open-loop replay.
No online object-state feedback or policy inference is
used during physical execution. These demonstrations there-
fore evaluate the physical executability of FoLD-generated
motions rather than closed-loop sim-to-real policy transfer.
Since this evaluation is intended as a qualitative proof of
concept, we do not report a task-level success rate.
13
