D2-VLA:
DUAL-MEMORY
DUAL-FREQUENCY
VISION-LANGUAGE-ACTION MODEL FOR LONG DY-
NAMIC MANIPULATION
Zijian Ye1,*, Chengqi Wei2,*, Wei Huang1,†, Anlin Zheng1,†, Chunyu Zou1, Liangyu Wu2
Zikang Zhao2, Zhenjie Peng2, Yushuo Yang2, Shuman Zhao1, Zhongrui Wang2,#, Xiaojuan Qi1,#
1 The University of Hong Kong
2 Southern University of Science and Technology
§
https://github.com/ZijianYY/Dual-Memory-Dual-Frequency-VLA
ABSTRACT
Long-horizon manipulation requires robots to remember cues that are no longer
in view while responding to moving objects. Yet vision-language-action (VLA)
policies often rely on the latest observation, and refreshing their visual context typ-
ically requires another costly vision-language model (VLM) pass. We present D2-
VLA, which combines dual memory and dual-frequency control at the KV-cache
interface of a pretrained VLA. D2-VLA uses block-wise causal KV caching to
encode observations incrementally and, guided by distinct temporal attention pat-
terns, constructs separate historical KV read views for the VLM and action expert.
Between periodic VLM updates, a gated adapter incorporates fresh visual features
into the latest history-conditioned KV block, while a short fast-memory queue
supports action replanning. We introduce DOMINO-Long, a ten-task benchmark
requiring robots to use earlier visual cues when manipulating moving objects. D2-
VLA achieves complete-task success rates of 29.3% on DOMINO, compared with
9.6% for π0.5 and 17.2% for PUMA, and 60.0% on DOMINO-Long, compared
with 35.4% and 20.6%, respectively. It improves success rates on eight real-robot
tasks and reaches 97.5% on LIBERO-Long and 74.3% on RoboTwin 2.0.
1
INTRODUCTION
Vision–language–action (VLA) models leverage pretrained vision–language models (VLMs) to map
visual observations and language instructions to robot actions, enabling broad generalization across
tasks, objects, and environments (Intelligence et al., 2025; Kim et al., 2024). Modern flow-based
VLAs, such as π0.5, naturally separate computation into a large VLM for semantic understanding
and an action expert for continuous control. However, their inference loop is typically both memo-
ryless and frequency-coupled: each action prediction relies primarily on the latest observation, and
refreshing the action expert’s visual context requires another full VLM pass, as shown in Fig. 1.
However, real-world manipulation poses two coupled temporal challenges: long-horizon memory,
because task cues, object identities, and progress may disappear from the current view; and fast
responsiveness, because objects are not always static. For instance, grasping a rolling bottle and
returning it to its original position requires both. Simply retaining longer VLM context histories in-
creases attention costs, whereas frequent VLM refreshes are expensive. Therefore, effective control
needs to know what history the VLM and action expert access, and how frequently each is updated.
Prior work has largely studied these two dimensions separately. Memory-oriented methods ag-
gregate recent frames (Li et al., 2025), retrieve perceptual and semantic history (Shi et al., 2026),
propagate recurrent states (Li et al., 2026a), or combine short-term visual context with long-term
semantic summaries or selected keyframes (Torne et al., 2026; Sridhar et al., 2025). KV-based
* Equal contribution.
† Project lead.
# Corresponding author: wangzr@sustech.edu.cn,
xjqi@eee.hku.hk.
1
arXiv:2609.34792v1  [cs.CV]  28 Sep 2026


Figure 1: Persistent memory and responsive control with D2-VLA. Unlike single-frame π0.5
(top), D2-VLA (bottom) retains temporal context through causal KV caching and incorporates fresh
observations through a KV adapter for fast replanning between slow VLM updates. Real-world ex-
amples and benchmark success rates illustrate improvements in long-horizon dynamic manipulation.
approaches further retain or retrieve historical keys and values (Sun et al., 2026), reducing compu-
tational cost, but they do not explicitly account for the potentially different histories required by the
VLM (for semantic reasoning) and the action expert (for action generation). In parallel, real-time
and hierarchical approaches improve responsiveness through execution overlap (Black et al., 2025;
Xie et al., 2026a) or slow–fast computation (Zhang et al., 2025; Li et al., 2026b). Their fast con-
trollers, however, are typically conditioned on the latest slow representation. AHA-WAM maintains
rolling KV memory in a low-frequency video-DiT world planner and adapts its context to current
observations for a high-frequency action DiT (Cai et al., 2026). However, a low-level WAM policy
typically does not need long video memory for higher-level semantic reasoning. These distinctions
lead to our central question: can memory access and update frequency be co-designed at the native
KV interface of a pretrained VLA?
To investigate this question, we extend the single-observation π0.5 policy with block-causal tempo-
ral modeling and observe a pronounced temporal asymmetry: the VLM relies on broader history
for semantic reasoning, whereas the action expert attends mostly to token subsets from recent ob-
servations that contain motion information, as shown in Fig. 3. These findings motivate decoupling
KV-cache selection and refresh rates for the VLM and action expert.
We therefore introduce Dual-Memory Dual-Frequency VLA (D2-VLA) (Fig. 1). Block-causal train-
ing equips a single-frame VLA with temporal memory, enabling inference to encode only the latest
observation while reusing historical KV states. Dual-Memory uses consumer-specific online at-
tention statistics to select historical KV for the VLM and action expert, retaining relevant context
while reducing history-read and attention costs. Dual-Frequency combines slow VLM refreshes
with fast action replanning: between refreshes, a lightweight gated adapter refines the latest history-
conditioned KV block using fresh visual features, without rerunning the VLM. A bounded fast-
memory queue retains recent refined blocks to condition the action expert on short-range dynamics.
We further introduce DOMINO-Long, a benchmark whose tasks require robots to retain task in-
formation, such as earlier spatial configurations, presentation orders, or color cues, over long time
scales while simultaneously manipulating dynamic objects which are constantly moving. Across
DOMINO (Fang et al., 2026), DOMINO-Long, static long-horizon benchmarks, and real-robot ex-
periments, D2-VLA consistently improves over single-frame and memory-augmented baselines. It
achieves a 29.3% complete-task success rate and a 40.6 manipulation score on DOMINO, reaches
97.5% on LIBERO-Long (Liu et al., 2023) and 74.3% on RoboTwin 2.0 (Chen et al., 2025a), and
outperforms π0.5 and MemoryVLA on all four reported dynamic real-robot tasks.
2


Our main contributions are:
• We uncover a previously underexplored temporal asymmetry: the VLM and action expert require
distinct historical contexts and memory update rates. Motivated by this finding, we introduce
D2-VLA, a unified dual-memory, dual-frequency framework.
• We design a Dual-Memory method that enables the VLM and action expert to selectively retrieve
KV from cache based on attention statistics, preserving relevant history while reducing redundant
context computation.
• We develop a Dual-Frequency mechanism, which combines periodic VLM updates with
lightweight gated visual adaptation, fast-memory buffering, and grouped fine-tuning, enabling
responsive action replanning without rerunning the full VLM.
• We introduce DOMINO-Long, a benchmark demanding both long-term semantic reasoning and
dynamic object interaction, and demonstrate consistent gains across comprehensive simulation
and real-robot evaluations.
2
RELATED WORK
Long-horizon manipulation and memory-augmented policies.
History-dependent manipula-
tion requires information absent from the current observation. RoboMME evaluates temporal, spa-
tial, object, and procedural memory (Dai et al., 2026). RoboFlamingo models history with a sequen-
tial policy head (Li et al., 2024b), while CronusVLA extends single-frame VLAs through multi-
frame post-training (Li et al., 2025). MemoryVLA retrieves perceptual and cognitive memories for
action generation (Shi et al., 2026); MEM combines short-term video memory with long-term tex-
tual memory (Torne et al., 2026). MemER selects historical keyframes to guide a low-level policy
through language instructions (Sridhar et al., 2025). We instead study consumer-specific historical
KV selection, preserving complete stored blocks while tailoring their reads.
Dynamic manipulation and real-time control.
Dynamic manipulation requires both timely sen-
sory updates and effective task understanding. Recent works address this challenge through different
forms of temporal adaptation. RTC reduces execution latency by overlapping action generation and
execution without retraining (Black et al., 2025), while DynamicVLA introduces a dynamic ma-
nipulation benchmark and a compact VLA with streaming inference (Xie et al., 2026a). HiRT sepa-
rates fast visual control from slowly updated VLM context through hierarchical computation (Zhang
et al., 2025), and FAVLA reuses VLM KV states while incorporating high-frequency force feedback
into action generation (Li et al., 2026b). These studies highlight the importance of adaptive update
schedules and efficient sensory conditioning for dynamic environments. Our dual-frequency control
further explores how current visual observations can efficiently refresh a history-conditioned VLA
through a lightweight KV refinement interface.
3
METHOD
We first formulate the task, then introduce block-wise causal KV reuse, component-specific his-
torical read views, and dual-frequency visual conditioning. Implementation details and numerical
configurations are provided in Appendix A.
3.1
PRELIMINARIES
Problem formulation.
Generally, at each environment step t, the robot receives multi-view visual
observations It, a language instruction ℓ, and its proprioceptive state st. Let C denote the number
of camera views, H the predicted action horizon, and E the executed chunk size. The observation
set and predicted action chunk are
It = {I(c)
t
}C
c=1,
At = (at, . . . , at+H−1),
1 ≤E ≤H.
(1)
Here at denotes an action at environment step t. The policy executes the first E actions and subse-
quently replans from the updated observation. We denote the vision–language model by Φ and the
flow-matching action expert with parameters θ by vθ; πθ denotes the action distribution induced by
3


Figure 2: Overview of D2-VLA. (a) Dual memory provides component-specific KV reads; dual-
frequency control combines slow VLM refreshes with fast action replanning. (b) Block-causal at-
tention allows bidirectional reads within each observation block. (c) The adapter refines the latest
slow KV block with current visual features.
flow integration. In D2-VLA, the current proprioceptive state is projected into a dedicated token and
supplied directly to the action expert, rather than included in the VLM observation blocks or their
cached history. For notational simplicity, we leave this state input implicit in the policy equations
below. In our single-frame configuration initialized from π0.5, action generation is conditioned on
the current observation without historical context:
Asingle
t
∼πθ(· | Φ(It, ℓ, st)) .
(2)
Here, the VLM encodes the current images and instruction into task-conditioned representations,
which are subsequently consumed by the action expert to jointly generate the entire action chunk.
Limited temporal and high-frequency visual context.
Single-frame policies such as π0.5 (In-
telligence et al., 2025) lack historical context for handling occlusions, tracking task progress, and
making long-horizon decisions. Refreshing their visual conditioning requires a full VLM pass at
each replanning step. Re-encoding history adds computational cost, while reusing stale features
can reduce action accuracy. This trade-off between temporal context, fresh visual feedback, and
inference cost motivates D2-VLA.
3.2
CAUSAL TEMPORAL MODELING
Task-conditioned observation blocks.
Within an episode, we sample N observations at interval
∆, including the current observation:
Tt =

It−(N−1)∆, . . . , It−∆, It

.
(3)
The image and text encoders, Eimg and Etext, form Image–Task blocks Bj with the instruction ℓ
repeated at each sampled time j:
Bj = [Eimg(Ij); Etext(ℓ)] ,
BT =

Bt−(N−1)∆; . . . ; Bt

.
(4)
Here Eimg(Ij) concatenates tokens from all camera views, semicolons denote token concatenation,
and BT is the resulting multimodal sequence.
Block-wise causal attention.
The VLM uses bidirectional attention within each block and causal
attention across blocks. Its observation KV and the separately projected current state condition the
action expert; the full attention mask is given in Appendix A.2. At inference, retained history K<t
4


is reused without re-encoding, and the current block’s complete visual and instruction KV, Kc, is
appended to form Kt:
Kc = ΦKV(It, ℓ; K<t) ,
Kt = K<t ⊕Kc,
Ahist
t
∼πθ(· | Kt) .
(5)
Here ΦKV returns layer-wise KV and ⊕denotes temporal concatenation; c identifies the current
block, not a camera, and Kc(j) specifies its observation time. Each update uses up to the latest
N −1 historical blocks, using all available history during warm-up. We call this policy the KV-
Cache prototype.
Figure 3: Attention asymmetry and token concentration. Visual attention maps (left) and token-
wise attention scores (right) for the VLM (top) and action expert (bottom).
3.3
DUAL-MEMORY: ASYMMETRIC HISTORY SELECTION
The KV-Cache prototype improves success over single-observation π0.5 on LIBERO-Long and
RoboTwin 2.0, but increases latency and memory (Tab. 10). Therefore, we analyze its attention
patterns to identify opportunities for selective history access.
Attention asymmetry and token concentration.
Aggregating historical attention by temporal
distance reveals different temporal preferences for the VLM and action expert (attention asymme-
try). Within observations, both modules concentrate attention on a small subset of tokens (token
concentration; Fig. 3). These findings motivate independent historical KV reads for the two mod-
ules; additional visualizations are provided in Appendix D.1.
Asymmetric historical read views.
The VLM and action expert use ReadVLM and Readact,
respectively, to select historical visual tokens from complete stored blocks K<t using independent
online attention statistics, while retaining instruction tokens. Selection is inference-only; training
uses uncompressed KV. The VLM reads its selected history to encode the current observation, while
the expert combines its own selection with the complete current block:
Kc = ΦKV(It, ℓ; ReadVLM(K<t)) ,
bK act
t
= Readact(K<t) ⊕Kc.
(6)
Here bK act
t
is the expert’s observation-KV condition. Selection changes only temporary reads, leav-
ing stored blocks complete and the current block uncompressed. The condition remains fixed during
each flow solve, whose attention statistics update subsequent reads. Online scoring and token selec-
tion are detailed in Appendix A.3.
3.4
DUAL-FREQUENCY: MULTI-RATE VISUAL CONDITIONING
D2-VLA updates VLM every V environment steps and replans every E steps, with V an integer mul-
tiple of E. A dynamic feature adapter supplies fresh visual conditioning between VLM refreshes.
5


Dual-memory mechanism.
The queues Qslow and Qfast store complete VLM-generated and
adapter-refined KV blocks with capacities Nslow and Nfast. Read operators act on their layer-wise
temporal concatenations; for Qslow, this is Kt at slow-refresh steps. VLM prefill, slow denoising,
and fast denoising maintain independent selection statistics. Before insertion, each queue keeps the
most recent historical blocks up to one less than its capacity, denoted by Q<t
slow or Q<t
fast. A slow
refresh generates and stores the complete current block:
Kc = ΦKV
 It, ℓ; ReadVLM(Q<t
slow)

,
Qslow = Q<t
slow ⊕Kc,
(7)
Dynamic Feature Adapter.
Let ts denote the latest slow-update time; within its cycle, we ab-
breviate the complete anchor Kc(ts) from Eq. 7 as Kc. With steps counted from episode start, the
normalized elapsed time δt and configured history interval ∆are
∆= V,
δt = (t−⌊t/V ⌋·V )/V .
(8)
The encoder Encψ combines current image features with the temporal offset, and the learned-query
pooler Poolψ produces compact queries Zt. These queries read the anchor to produce a complete
refined KV block e
Zt, which is appended to fast memory:
Zt = Poolψ(Encψ(Eimg(It), δt)) , e
Zt = Kc + Gψ ⊙Fψ(Zt, Kc) , Qt
fast = Q<t
fast ⊕e
Zt.
(9)
Here ψ denotes adapter parameters, Fψ predicts full-block K/V residuals, Gψ contains layer-wise
K/V gates, and ⊙denotes elementwise multiplication. Each refinement preserves the KV layout
and uses the unchanged complete slow anchor, not a compressed view or previous refinement. Task
information enters through the anchor, without a separate text input (Appendix A.4).
Dual-frequency Mechanism.
Every V steps, Eq. 7 refreshes slow memory and resets the fast
queue and its scores. Intermediate replanning uses Eq. 9 without rerunning the VLM or modifying
slow memory. At each E-step replanning call, the shared expert uses
bK act
t
=
(Readact
 Q<t
slow

⊕Kc,
t mod V = 0,
Readact
 Q<t
fast

⊕e
Zt,
t mod V̸ = 0,
At ∼πθ

· | bK act
t

.
(10)
Current state is supplied separately (Section 3.1). The two queues are never concatenated into one
expert condition; fast calls inherit long-range context through the history-conditioned slow anchor.
4
DOMINO-LONG DATASET
Existing DOMINO tasks primarily target short-horizon manipulation, where actions are executed
within a limited interaction window and therefore place relatively weak demands on long-term
memory and extended decision-making. To address this limitation, we introduce DOMINO-Long,
a benchmark designed to evaluate whether VLA models can retain task-relevant information over
long temporal intervals and use it for subsequent decisions under dynamic interaction.
DOMINO-Long contains 10 multi-stage manipulation tasks with 50 demonstrations per task, yield-
ing 500 demonstrations and 227,208 observation–action records in total. Each demonstration spans
201–911 interaction steps, with an average length of 454.4 steps. The tasks explicitly separate infor-
mation acquisition from action execution: cues such as previous object locations, presentation order
and color instructions are observed early in an episode but are required only at later stages. Rep-
resentative tasks include restoring an earlier object configuration, executing actions according to a
previously observed sequence, and selecting a moving object based on a cue that is no longer visible.
Several tasks additionally involve moving objects, requiring the policy to combine retained histor-
ical information with current visual feedback. In this way, DOMINO-Long evaluates long-horizon
context retention and dynamic responsiveness. Further details are provided in Appendix B.2.
5
EXPERIMENTS
Our evaluation examines whether D2-VLA can retain task context over long horizons while incor-
porating fresh visual feedback during dynamic manipulation. We consider DOMINO for dynamic
interaction, LIBERO-Long for multi-stage manipulation, and our DOMINO-Long benchmark for
long-horizon dynamic tasks. Eight real-world tasks provide complementary physical evaluation,
while RoboTwin 2.0 serves as a supplementary manipulation benchmark.
6


5.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Model configuration.
D2-VLA adds a full-block visual KV adapter to π0.5 Base, retaining its
PaliGemma-3B VLM and shared flow-matching expert. For DOMINO, DOMINO-Long, and real-
world tasks, the slow and fast memories hold up to four and two complete KV blocks, respectively,
including the current block.
Model training.
Each training sample is constructed within a single episode and contains a slow
anchor, up to three historical observations, and three action branches: one at the anchor time and
two at later steps. Each branch has its own images, robot state, and H-step action target. The anchor
branch is processed with one block-causal VLM forward pass. The later branches reuse adapter-
refined KV features from the shared anchor and, when available, from the previous refined block. We
train all modules end-to-end using only the flow-matching loss, while masking unavailable history
and action targets beyond the episode boundary. No auxiliary adapter loss or training-time KV
selection is used. We optimize with AdamW using 40 anchor groups per batch for 75K updates on
DOMINO and 50K updates on DOMINO-Long and real-world tasks. Additional training details are
provided in Appendix A.5 and Tab. 5.
Model inference.
On DOMINO, DOMINO-Long, and real-world tasks, we fix H = E = 25 and
V = 75, with adapter updates between VLM refreshes. Inference uses EMA weights and ten Euler
steps with a fixed KV condition per call. For the main results, VLM prefill, slow denoising, and
fast denoising each retain 70% of historical visual tokens using independent scores, preserving in-
struction tokens, the current denoising block, and full stored KV. LIBERO-Long and RoboTwin 2.0
disable the high-rate path while retaining full-KV training and online selection (Section 5.5).
Evaluation Scenarios and Benchmarks.
We evaluate D2-VLA in dynamic simulation, real-world
manipulation, and static simulation to test responsiveness, temporal memory, and execution.
• Dynamic simulation.
DOMINO Fang et al. (2026) comprises 35 dynamic tasks built on
RoboTwin 2.0 Chen et al. (2025a) and SAPIEN Xiang et al. (2020). We use only the Aloha-
AgileX embodiment, training on clean setting and evaluating on clean L1 to test responses to
moving objects. DOMINO-Long (Section 4) adds 10 tasks requiring earlier observations to guide
later actions, with 50 demonstrations per task used for training.
• Real-world manipulation. Eight long-horizon tasks on Unitree G1D comprise 4 static and 4
dynamic tasks. They test ordered execution, object assignments, and spatial memory; dynamic
tasks additionally require remembered cues and fresh visual feedback during manipulation.
• Static simulation. LIBERO-Long tests instruction grounding and multi-stage execution across
10 tasks, with 50 demonstrations per task. RoboTwin 2.0 tests bimanual manipulation across 50
tasks; we train only on each task’s Aloha clean dataset and evaluate all 50 tasks in the clean setting.
Detailed evaluation protocols and task definitions are provided in Appendices A, B and C.
5.2
EVALUATION METRICS
Complete-task success rate (SR).
It measures whether the policy completes the task. An episode
is counted as successful only when all task requirements are satisfied. For long-horizon tasks, this
includes completing the full action sequence with the correct object identities, ordering, and final
configuration; partial execution or correct cue recognition alone does not count as success.
Manipulation Score (MS).
DOMINO’s Manipulation Score (MS) measures manipulation quality
beyond binary task completion. MS reflects how effectively the robot progresses toward the target
while penalizing unsafe or undesirable behaviors, such as leaving the valid workspace or field of
view and colliding with surrounding clutter, following the original DOMINO protocol.
5.3
EVALUATION ON DYNAMIC MANIPULATION BENCHMARKS
Dynamic manipulation on DOMINO.
DOMINO tests D2-VLA’s responsiveness to changing
observations through interception and tracking of independently moving objects, requiring correct
7


Method
SR (%)↑MS↑
OpenVLA (Kim et al., 2024)
1.5
6.1
RDT-1B (Liu et al., 2025)
5.3
17.7
π0 (Black et al., 2026)
8.2
24.0
π0.5 (Intelligence et al., 2025)
9.6
26.2
InternVLA-M1 (Chen et al., 2025b)
5.4
27.6
VLA-Adapter (Wang et al., 2025)
4.4
24.3
π0-FAST (Pertsch et al., 2025)
3.5
20.9
OpenVLA-OFT (Kim et al., 2025)
9.1
24.1
StarVLA-OFT (Community, 2026)
10.9
30.5
PUMA (Fang et al., 2026)
17.2
35.0
Ours
29.3
40.6
(a) DOMINO dynamic manipulation benchmark.
Subtask
PUMA
π0.5
Ours
Bottle Return
22%
20%
32%
Can Grasp
36%
92%
100%
Stack Two
24%
32%
38%
Two Color Cue
26%
22%
62%
Can Placement
42%
34%
52%
Tray Swap
14%
16%
38%
Screen Cue
20%
36%
90%
Stack Three
0%
6%
22%
Motion Memory
10%
52%
80%
Color Memory
12%
44%
86%
Average
20.6%
35.4%
60%
(b) DOMINO-Long benchmark.
Table 1: Evaluation on dynamic and long-horizon manipulation. (a) Comparison on DOMINO,
measured by SR and MS. (b) Per-subtask results on the 10 subtasks of DOMINO-Long.
target identification and continuous action adjustment. We fine-tune on clean demonstrations and
evaluate on clean L1 with predictable low-order motion. Tab. 1(a) reports 29.3% SR and 40.6 MS,
which measures execution quality beyond binary success. D2-VLA exceeds π0.5 by 19.7 percentage
points in SR and 14.4 points in MS, and PUMA by 12.1 percentage points and 5.6 points, respec-
tively. These gains support the effectiveness of combining historical context with frequent visual
feedback for dynamic manipulation. Training and inference details are in Appendix A.
Long-Horizon Dynamic Manipulation on DOMINO-Long.
Tab. 1(b) reports 60% average
complete-task SR, exceeding π0.5 (35.4%) and PUMA (20.6%) by 24.6 and 39.4 percentage points,
respectively. These gains support the effectiveness of combining long-term memory with frequent
visual updates for long-horizon dynamic manipulation. Observation/action interfaces are in Ap-
pendix A.1; task definitions and evaluation settings are in Appendix B.2.
5.4
REAL-WORLD EVALUATION
(a) Experimental setup
(b) Four manipulation tasks
(c) Results
Robot platform
Unitree-G1 dual-arm platform for
grasping and placing toys and
blocks, with tasks testing object
recall and remembered pick order.
Conveyor workspace
Moving objects on a conveyor are
picked and placed into trays or
color-matched bins. This setup
includes toys and colored blocks.
01 Object Return
Refill the original toy tray.
02 Match and Pick
Recall and pick the previously seen block.
03 Sequential Pick
Pick both blocks in the remembered order.
04 Color Sorting
Place objects in color-matched bins.
70
35
25
0
20
40
60
80
100
D²-VLA
π0.5
MemoryVLA
Successful rate(%)
65
30
25
0
20
40
60
80
100
D²-VLA
π0.5
MemoryVLA
Successful rate(%)
85
65
45
0
20
40
60
80
100
D²-VLA
π0.5
MemoryVLA
Successful rate(%)
75
45
35
0
20
40
60
80
100
D²-VLA
π0.5
MemoryVLA
Successful rate(%)
Figure 4: Long-horizon dynamic real-world evaluation on the Unitree G1D robot. Representative
task executions and success-rate comparisons with π0.5 and MemoryVLA.
8


Method
Params (B) ↓SR (%) ↑
Diffusion Policy (Chi et al., 2024)
0.1
28.0
ACT (Zhao et al., 2023)
0.1
29.7
DP3 (Ze et al., 2024)
0.3
55.2
π0 (Black et al., 2026)
3.2
46.4
FlowPolicy (Zhang et al., 2024)
0.3
41.0
RDT-1B (Liu et al., 2025)
1.7
34.5
SeedPolicy (Gui et al., 2026)
0.2
42.8
Turbo-VLA (Xie et al., 2026b)
0.4
60.2
π0.5 (Intelligence et al., 2025)
3.4
57.0
StarVLA-α (Ye et al., 2026)
3.8
50.3
D2-VLA (Ours)
3.5
74.3
(a) RoboTwin 2.0.
Method
SR (%) ↑
CogACT (Li et al., 2024a)
53.2
OpenVLA (Kim et al., 2024)
53.7
π0-FAST (Pertsch et al., 2025)
60.2
CronusVLA (Li et al., 2025)
68.7
CoT-VLA (Zhao et al., 2025)
69.0
SmolVLA (Shukor et al., 2025)
77.0
π0 (Black et al., 2026)
85.2
GR00T-N1 (NVIDIA et al., 2025)
90.6
π0.5 (Intelligence et al., 2025)
92.4
MemoryVLA (Shi et al., 2026)
93.4
D2-VLA (Ours)
97.5
(b) LIBERO-Long.
Table 2: Performance comparison on static manipulation benchmarks. (a) Model size and
average success rate on RoboTwin 2.0, with all methods trained and evaluated exclusively on the
clean setting. (b) Average success rate on LIBERO-Long.
Task design.
We deploy D2-VLA on a Unitree G1D for bimanual manipulation; the robot and
observation/action interfaces are described in Appendix C.1. Four static long-horizon tasks test
ordered subgoals, object assignments, and memory of earlier spatial layouts. Four dynamic long-
horizon tasks require decisions using current observations and task information retained from earlier
in the episode. Together, they test whether D2-VLA integrates long-term context with fresh visual
feedback for multi-stage physical manipulation.
Evaluation and results.
We report complete-task SR, requiring the full instructed sequence. Fig. 4
presents dynamic-task examples and results. D2-VLA improves over π0.5 and MemoryVLA across
tasks by varying margins, supporting retained context and frequent visual updates for real-world
dynamic manipulation. Static-task results and additional examples are in Appendix C.
5.5
EVALUATION ON STANDARD STATIC BENCHMARKS
We evaluate D2-VLA on LIBERO-Long Liu et al. (2023) and RoboTwin 2.0 Chen et al. (2025a)
with the high-rate pathway disabled, retaining full-KV training and online dual-memory selection
at inference. Tab. 2 reports 97.5% SR on LIBERO-Long, exceeding π0.5 (92.4%) and MemoryVLA
(93.4%) by 5.1 and 4.1 percentage points. On RoboTwin 2.0, D2-VLA reaches 74.3% SR, improving
over π0.5 (57.0%) by 17.3 percentage points. These results support the usefulness of history-aware
conditioning beyond dynamic scenes, without high-rate visual updates.
5.6
ABLATION STUDIES
Model
DM
DF
SR (%)
π0.5
–
–
9.6
+ Causal Training
✓
–
16.1
D2-VLA
✓
✓
29.3
Table 3: Component ablation on DOMINO.
DM: dual-memory; DF: dual-frequency.
Component ablation. We progressively add causal
training with dual-memory selection and then dual-
frequency control, including the adapter, to π0.5 on
DOMINO. The first stage uses separate VLM and
expert history reads without high-rate refinement;
the second adds fast memory between VLM re-
freshes. Tab. 3 shows that the first stage raises SR
from 9.6% to 16.1% (+6.5 percentage points), and
dual-frequency control further increases it to 29.3%
(+13.2 points). These gains support complementary benefits from historical context and intermedi-
ate visual updates. Additional ablations on historical KV retention and update periods are reported in
Appendices D.3 and D.4, respectively. Memory and latency analysis can be seen in Appendix D.2.
9


6
CONCLUSION
We presented D2-VLA, combining causal KV reuse, consumer-specific history selection, and
adapter-based dual-frequency control to retain context and use fresh observations without a VLM
pass at every replanning step. We introduced DOMINO-Long to test long-horizon memory and dy-
namic responsiveness. D2-VLA achieves 29.3% SR on DOMINO and 60.0% on DOMINO-Long,
improves dynamic real-world manipulation, and extends memory-based design to static benchmarks,
demonstrating the substantial benefits of combining historical context with timely visual feedback.
AI USE STATEMENT
In this work, we used generative AI tools solely for language editing and proofreading, including
improving grammar, readability, and overall clarity of the manuscript. We did not use generative
AI tools for generating research ideas, designing methods, conducting experiments, analyzing re-
sults, producing scientific claims, or creating research artifacts. All AI-assisted edits were carefully
reviewed and revised by the authors to ensure accuracy and consistency with the intended content.
The authors take full responsibility for the final content of this work, including all text, claims, and
artifacts.
REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
To facilitate reproducibility, we are willing to provide anonymous access to the source code, model
weights, and the training and inference data used in our experiments for reproducibility. Detailed
descriptions of the proposed method, experimental settings, and implementation details are provided
in the main paper and appendix. These resources enable independent verification of our results and
support further research on long-horizon vision-language-action models.
REFERENCES
Lucas Beyer, Andreas Steiner, Andr´e Susano Pinto, Alexander Kolesnikov, Xiao Wang, Daniel
Salz, Maxim Neumann, Ibrahim Alabdulmohsin, Michael Tschannen, Emanuele Bugliarello,
Thomas Unterthiner, Daniel Keysers, Skanda Koppula, Fangyu Liu, Adam Grycner, Alexey Grit-
senko, Neil Houlsby, Manoj Kumar, Keran Rong, Julian Eisenschlos, Rishabh Kabra, Matthias
Bauer, Matko Boˇsnjak, Xi Chen, Matthias Minderer, Paul Voigtlaender, Ioana Bica, Ivana Bal-
azevic, Joan Puigcerver, Pinelopi Papalampidi, Olivier Henaff, Xi Xiong, Radu Soricut, Jeremiah
Harmsen, and Xiaohua Zhai. PaliGemma: A versatile 3B VLM for transfer. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.07726, 2024.
Kevin Black, Manuel Y. Galliker, and Sergey Levine. Real-time execution of action chunking flow
policies, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.07339.
Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo
Fusai, Lachy Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak, Tim Jones, Liyiming Ke,
Sergey Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi,
James Tanner, Quan Vuong, Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, and Ury Zhilinsky. π0: A vision-
language-action flow model for general robot control, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2410.24164.
Jisong Cai, Long Ling, Shiwei Chu, Zhongshan Liu, Jiayue Kang, Zhixuan Liang, Wenjie Xu, Yinan
Mao, Weinan Zhang, Xiaokang Yang, et al. Aha-wam: Asynchronous horizon-adaptive world-
action modeling with observation-guided context routing, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2606.09811.
Tianxing Chen, Zanxin Chen, Baijun Chen, Zijian Cai, Yibin Liu, Zixuan Li, Qiwei Liang, Xi-
anliang Lin, Yiheng Ge, Zhenyu Gu, et al. Robotwin 2.0: A scalable data generator and bench-
mark with strong domain randomization for robust bimanual robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2506.18088, 2025a.
Xinyi Chen, Yilun Chen, Yanwei Fu, Ning Gao, Jiaya Jia, Weiyang Jin, Hao Li, Yao Mu, Jiangmiao
Pang, Yu Qiao, Yang Tian, Bin Wang, Bolun Wang, Fangjing Wang, Hanqing Wang, Tai Wang,
10


Ziqin Wang, Xueyuan Wei, Chao Wu, Shuai Yang, Jinhui Ye, Junqiu Yu, Jia Zeng, Jingjing
Zhang, Jinyu Zhang, Shi Zhang, Feng Zheng, Bowen Zhou, and Yangkun Zhu. Internvla-m1:
A spatially guided vision-language-action framework for generalist robot policy, 2025b. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.13778.
Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Siyuan Feng, Eric Cousineau, Yilun Du, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake,
and Shuran Song. Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.04137.
StarVLA Community. Starvla: A lego-like codebase for vision-language-action model developing,
2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.05014.
Yinpei Dai, Hongze Fu, Jayjun Lee, Yuejiang Liu, Haoran Zhang, Jianing Yang, Chelsea Finn,
Nima Fazeli, and Joyce Chai. Robomme: Benchmarking and understanding memory for robotic
generalist policies, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.04639.
Heng Fang, Shangru Li, Shuhan Wang, Xuanyang Xi, Dingkang Liang, and Xiang Bai. Towards
generalizable robotic manipulation in dynamic environments, 2026. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2603.15620.
Youqiang Gui, Yuxuan Zhou, Shen Cheng, Xinyang Yuan, Haoqiang Fan, Peng Cheng, and
Shuaicheng Liu. Seedpolicy: Horizon scaling via self-evolving diffusion policy for robot ma-
nipulation, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.05117.
Physical Intelligence, Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny Driess,
Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Manuel Y. Galliker, Dibya Ghosh,
Lachy Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak, Tim Jones, Liyiming Ke, Devin
LeBlanc, Sergey Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch, Allen Z.
Ren, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Laura Smith, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Kyle Stachowicz, James Tanner,
Quan Vuong, Homer Walke, Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, Lili Yu, and Ury Zhilinsky. π0.5: a
vision-language-action model with open-world generalization, 2025. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2504.16054.
Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair,
Rafael Rafailov, Ethan Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag Sanketi, Quan Vuong, Thomas Kollar, Ben-
jamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, Dorsa Sadigh, Sergey Levine, Percy Liang, and Chelsea Finn.
Openvla: An open-source vision-language-action model, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2406.09246.
Moo Jin Kim, Chelsea Finn, and Percy Liang. Fine-tuning vision-language-action models: Opti-
mizing speed and success, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.19645.
Hang Li, Fengyi Shen, Dong Chen, Liudi Yang, Xudong Wang, Jinkui Shi, Zhenshan Bing, Ziyuan
Liu, and Alois Knoll. Remem-vla: Empowering vision-language-action model with memory via
dual-level recurrent queries, 2026a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.12942.
Hao Li, Shuai Yang, Yilun Chen, Xinyi Chen, Xiaoda Yang, Yang Tian, Hanqing Wang, Tai Wang,
Dahua Lin, Feng Zhao, and Jiangmiao Pang. Cronusvla: Towards efficient and robust manipu-
lation via multi-frame vision-language-action modeling, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2506.19816.
Qixiu Li, Yaobo Liang, Zeyu Wang, Lin Luo, Xi Chen, Mozheng Liao, Fangyun Wei, Yu Deng,
Sicheng Xu, Yizhong Zhang, Xiaofan Wang, Bei Liu, Jianlong Fu, Jianmin Bao, Dong Chen,
Yuanchun Shi, Jiaolong Yang, and Baining Guo. Cogact: A foundational vision-language-action
model for synergizing cognition and action in robotic manipulation, 2024a. URL https://
arxiv.org/abs/2411.19650.
Xinghang Li, Minghuan Liu, Hanbo Zhang, Cunjun Yu, Jie Xu, Hongtao Wu, Chilam Cheang,
Ya Jing, Weinan Zhang, Huaping Liu, Hang Li, and Tao Kong.
Vision-language foundation
models as effective robot imitators, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01378.
Yao Li, Peiyuan Tang, Wuyang Zhang, Chengyang Zhu, Yifan Duan, Weikai Shi, Xiaodong Zhang,
Zijiang Yang, Jianmin Ji, and Yanyong Zhang. Favla: A force-adaptive fast-slow vla model for
contact-rich robotic manipulation, 2026b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.23648.
11


Bo Liu, Yifeng Zhu, Chongkai Gao, Yihao Feng, Qiang Liu, Yuke Zhu, and Peter Stone. Libero:
Benchmarking knowledge transfer for lifelong robot learning, 2023. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2306.03310.
Songming Liu, Lingxuan Wu, Bangguo Li, Hengkai Tan, Huayu Chen, Zhengyi Wang, Ke Xu, Hang
Su, and Jun Zhu. Rdt-1b: a diffusion foundation model for bimanual manipulation, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07864.
NVIDIA, :, Johan Bjorck, Fernando Casta˜neda, Nikita Cherniadev, Xingye Da, Runyu Ding,
Linxi ”Jim” Fan, Yu Fang, Dieter Fox, Fengyuan Hu, Spencer Huang, Joel Jang, Zhenyu Jiang,
Jan Kautz, Kaushil Kundalia, Lawrence Lao, Zhiqi Li, Zongyu Lin, Kevin Lin, Guilin Liu,
Edith Llontop, Loic Magne, Ajay Mandlekar, Avnish Narayan, Soroush Nasiriany, Scott Reed,
You Liang Tan, Guanzhi Wang, Zu Wang, Jing Wang, Qi Wang, Jiannan Xiang, Yuqi Xie, Yinzhen
Xu, Zhenjia Xu, Seonghyeon Ye, Zhiding Yu, Ao Zhang, Hao Zhang, Yizhou Zhao, Ruijie Zheng,
and Yuke Zhu. Gr00t n1: An open foundation model for generalist humanoid robots, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14734.
Karl Pertsch, Kyle Stachowicz, Brian Ichter, Danny Driess, Suraj Nair, Quan Vuong, Oier Mees,
Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Fast: Efficient action tokenization for vision-language-action
models, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09747.
Hao Shi, Bin Xie, Yingfei Liu, Lin Sun, Fengrong Liu, Tiancai Wang, Erjin Zhou, Haoqiang Fan,
Xiangyu Zhang, and Gao Huang. Memoryvla: Perceptual-cognitive memory in vision-language-
action models for robotic manipulation, 2026.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.
19236.
Mustafa Shukor, Dana Aubakirova, Francesco Capuano, Pepijn Kooijmans, Steven Palma, Adil
Zouitine, Michel Aractingi, Caroline Pascal, Martino Russi, Andres Marafioti, Simon Alibert,
Matthieu Cord, Thomas Wolf, and Remi Cadene. Smolvla: A vision-language-action model for
affordable and efficient robotics, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01844.
Ajay Sridhar, Jennifer Pan, Satvik Sharma, and Chelsea Finn. Memer: Scaling up memory for robot
control via experience retrieval, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.20328.
Jun Sun, Boyu Yang, Jiahao Zhang, Ning Ma, Chencheng Wu, Siqing Zhang, Yiou Huang, Qiufeng
Wang, Shan Liang, and Yaran Chen. Tempofit: Plug-and-play layer-wise temporal kv memory for
long-horizon vision-language-action manipulation, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2603.07647.
Marcel Torne, Karl Pertsch, Homer Walke, Kyle Vedder, Suraj Nair, Brian Ichter, Allen Z. Ren,
Haohuan Wang, Jiaming Tang, Kyle Stachowicz, Karan Dhabalia, Michael Equi, Quan Vuong,
Jost Tobias Springenberg, Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, and Danny Driess. Mem: Multi-scale
embodied memory for vision language action models, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2603.03596.
Yihao Wang, Pengxiang Ding, Lingxiao Li, Can Cui, Zirui Ge, Xinyang Tong, Wenxuan Song, Han
Zhao, Wei Zhao, Pengxu Hou, Siteng Huang, Yifan Tang, Wenhui Wang, Ru Zhang, Jianyi Liu,
and Donglin Wang. Vla-adapter: An effective paradigm for tiny-scale vision-language-action
model, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09372.
Fanbo Xiang, Yuzhe Qin, Kaichun Mo, Yikuan Xia, Hao Zhu, Fangchen Liu, Minghua Liu, Hanxiao
Jiang, Yifu Yuan, He Wang, Li Yi, Angel X. Chang, Leonidas J. Guibas, and Hao Su. SAPIEN: A
simulated part-based interactive environment. In The IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June 2020.
Haozhe Xie, Beichen Wen, Jiarui Zheng, Zhaoxi Chen, Fangzhou Hong, Haiwen Diao, and Ziwei
Liu. Dynamicvla: A vision-language-action model for dynamic object manipulation, 2026a. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.22153.
Hengyi Xie, Chenfei Yao, Xianjin Wu, Yingying Zhu, Dingkang Liang, Xiang Bai, and Han Ding.
Turbovla: Real-time vision-language-action model at 32 hz on an rtx 4090 with ¡ 1 gb vram.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.27205, 2026b.
12


Jinhui Ye, Ning Gao, Senqiao Yang, Jinliang Zheng, Zixuan Wang, Yuxin Chen, Pengguang Chen,
Yilun Chen, Shu Liu, and Jiaya Jia. Starvla-α: Reducing complexity in vision-language-action
systems, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.11757.
Yanjie Ze, Gu Zhang, Kangning Zhang, Chenyuan Hu, Muhan Wang, and Huazhe Xu. 3d diffusion
policy: Generalizable visuomotor policy learning via simple 3d representations, 2024.
URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03954.
Xiaohua Zhai, Basil Mustafa, Alexander Kolesnikov, and Lucas Beyer. Sigmoid loss for language
image pre-training. In 2023 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV),
pp. 11941–11952. IEEE, 2023.
Jianke Zhang, Yanjiang Guo, Xiaoyu Chen, Yen-Jen Wang, Yucheng Hu, Chengming Shi, and
Jianyu Chen. Hirt: Enhancing robotic control with hierarchical robot transformers, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05273.
Qinglun Zhang, Zhen Liu, Haoqiang Fan, Guanghui Liu, Bing Zeng, and Shuaicheng Liu. Flow-
policy: Enabling fast and robust 3d flow-based policy via consistency flow matching for robot
manipulation, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04987.
Qingqing Zhao, Yao Lu, Moo Jin Kim, Zipeng Fu, Zhuoyang Zhang, Yecheng Wu, Zhaoshuo Li,
Qianli Ma, Song Han, Chelsea Finn, Ankur Handa, Ming-Yu Liu, Donglai Xiang, Gordon Wet-
zstein, and Tsung-Yi Lin. Cot-vla: Visual chain-of-thought reasoning for vision-language-action
models, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.22020.
Tony Z. Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual ma-
nipulation with low-cost hardware, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.13705.
13


A
IMPLEMENTATION AND TRAINING DETAILS
This appendix provides the implementation and training details of D2-VLA. We first describe the
model architecture, observation and action interfaces. We then detail the implementation of the key
VLA components, including the causal modeling and cache conventions, dynamic feature adapta-
tion, model optimization and inference. Finally, we summarize the experiment-specific configu-
rations for DOMINO, DOMINO-Long, and the real-world tasks, together with the corresponding
simulation protocols, real-world evaluation settings, memory analysis, and ablation studies.
A.1
MODEL ARCHITECTURE AND OBSERVATION–ACTION INTERFACES
Backbone and token layout.
The VLM is initialized from the PaliGemma-3B backbone Beyer
et al. (2024) used in π0.5. It consists of a SigLIP vision encoder Zhai et al. (2023) and a Gemma
language backbone. The language backbone follows the Gemma-2B configuration, while the action
expert is based on Gemma-300M. Both Transformer stacks contain 18 layers, with 8 query heads, 1
KV head, and a head dimension of 256. Their hidden dimensions are 2048 and 1024, respectively.
The SigLIP Zhai et al. (2023) encoder processes each 224 × 224 image using 14 × 14 patches
and produces 256 visual tokens. With three camera views, each observation contains 768 visual
tokens. We allow up to 200 instruction tokens, resulting in a maximum of 968 token positions per
observation block. Unused instruction positions and unavailable camera views are masked. The
same instruction is repeated for each observation block.
The robot state is handled separately from the VLM input. The normalized state is padded to 32
dimensions and projected into a single 1024-dimensional token for the action expert. This state
token is not stored in the visual-language cache.
Embodiment-specific inputs and actions.
The simulation setup uses three camera views: one
head camera and two wrist cameras. For DOMINO-Long, the original images are recorded at 640×
480 resolution. The ALOHA state and action vectors contain 14 dimensions, including 12 arm-joint
dimensions and two gripper dimensions. The Unitree robot uses 16-dimensional state and action
vectors, consisting of 14 arm-joint dimensions and two gripper dimensions. For a unified model
interface, both representations are padded to 32 dimensions. In the real-world setup, the left and
right head-camera images are combined into a single model view, while the two wrist-camera views
are kept separate. Additional details are provided in Appendix C.1.
For training, arm-joint actions are represented relative to the current robot state:
eAtj,h,d = Aabs
tj+h,d −stj,d,
(11)
where tj denotes the current step of branch j, h = 0, . . . , H −1 is the action offset, and d indexes
an arm joint. The gripper actions remain in absolute coordinates. Relative joint actions are com-
puted before quantile normalization. During inference, the current joint state is added back after
denormalization to recover absolute joint commands, and padded dimensions are removed before
execution. Normalization statistics are computed separately for each training dataset, and invalid
action steps are excluded from the training loss as described in Appendix A.5.
A.2
CAUSAL MODELING AND CACHE CONVENTIONS
Observation-level causality.
We organize each training sample as a temporal window containing
the current observation and up to three preceding observations. Tokens within the same observation
block interact bidirectionally, whereas attention across observation blocks is causal: each block can
attend to itself and all earlier blocks, but not to future ones. Missing history at the beginning of an
episode is padded and masked, and temporal windows never cross episode boundaries. This follows
the causal modeling scheme introduced in Section 3.2.
The action expert receives the encoded observation history together with the current state token zs
t
and the noisy action tokens Aτ
t . The state token can attend to all valid observation blocks, while the
action tokens can additionally attend to the current state and to one another. For a temporal window
14


containing N observation blocks, the visibility pattern can be written as
V(Bi) = {Bj | j ≤i},
V(zs
t ) = {B1, . . . , BN, zs
t },
V(Aτ
t ) = {B1, . . . , BN, zs
t , Aτ
t },
(12)
where V(·) denotes the set of tokens visible to a given block or token group. In our implementation,
N = 4, with B1, . . . , B4 ordered from the oldest to the most recent observation, rather than indexing
absolute environment times as in Section 3.2. The noisy action tokens Aτ
t follow the flow-matching
formulation defined in Appendix A.5. The VLM encodes the observation blocks, while the action
expert operates on their layer-wise KV representations together with the state and action tokens.
Persistent slow-memory cache.
The slow-memory queue Qslow stores complete layer-wise KV
blocks in temporal order. At each slow update, the retained blocks are concatenated along the token
dimension to form the current slow-memory context Kt. The concatenation is performed separately
for keys and values at every Transformer layer while preserving the temporal order of the blocks:
Kt = ConcatKV
 Qt
slow

.
(13)
Before encoding a new slow observation at step t, the queue retains at most the most recent Nslow−1
historical blocks. Let Qt−
slow denote the queue state immediately before the current update. The
historical context, current KV block, and updated slow-memory queue are given by
Q<t
slow = PNslow−1

Qt−
slow

,
K<t = ConcatKV
 Q<t
slow

,
Kc(t) = ΦKV (It, ℓ; ReadVLM (K<t)) ,
Qt
slow = Q<t
slow ⊕Kc(t).
(14)
Here, Pk(·) preserves up to the most recent k complete blocks, ConcatKV(·) concatenates their
keys and values separately along the token dimension, and ⊕denotes temporal concatenation. In
our implementation, Nslow = 4, so the queue stores the current block together with up to three
preceding slow observations. The history read follows the selection rule defined in Section 3.3,
while the temporal ordering follows the causal formulation in Section 3.2.
Importantly, historical blocks are encoded only once and are not recomputed at every slow update.
The history selector affects only the temporary read view used by ΦKV; complete retained blocks
remain stored in Qslow. Consequently, the slow-memory cache is not equivalent to repeatedly en-
coding a fresh four-frame window, since each retained block may already contain information prop-
agated from earlier observations.
KV storage and positional encoding.
Both the slow and fast memories store raw keys and val-
ues before rotary positional encoding is applied. Rotary embeddings are applied to the keys only
when cached features are read, while the values remain unchanged. During each read, valid tokens
preserve their original temporal and within-block order but are reassigned compact position indices.
Masked camera tokens and padded instruction tokens remain invalid throughout this process. Thus,
position reassignment affects only the positional encoding used at read time and does not modify
the stored KV features. The online history selector follows the same Image–Task block layout and
raw-KV storage format as the memory queues, ensuring consistent representations across caching,
selection, and retrieval.
A.3
ONLINE CONSUMER-SPECIFIC HISTORICAL KV SELECTION
Separate online statistics.
Historical KV selection is applied only at inference and introduces no
trainable parameters. Let g ∈{p, s, f} index VLM prefill, slow-branch action denoising, and fast-
branch action denoising, respectively. Each stage maintains its own score tensor independently for
each sample. Prefill and slow-denoising scores are associated with complete slow-memory blocks;
fast-denoising scores are associated with the refined-block FIFO. The two action branches share
expert weights, but maintain separate history-importance statistics. Within each consumer, selected
token indices are shared across layers. In Eq. 6, ReadVLM denotes the prefill read (g = p), while
Readact denotes the slow-denoising read (g = s). At intermediate replanning steps in Eq. 10,
15


Readact instead uses fast-denoising scores (g = f) to select from fast memory. The two action paths
share the same read operator notation, but use separate source memories and importance statistics.
For each sample, let i index a token in the stage’s full stored memory and l index a Transformer
layer. We denote its accumulated importance by hg,l,i. The attention statistic ¯ag,l,i averages the
existing attention probabilities over heads and valid queries in the current call. For prefill, queries
are the valid current observation tokens; for denoising, they include the current state token and
action tokens. Denoising statistics are additionally averaged over flow-integration steps. With score-
retention coefficient ρ ∈[0, 1), fixed at 0.2 in the reported experiments, the update and cross-layer
selection score are
h+
g,l,i =
ρhg,l,i + (1 −ρ)¯ag,l,i,
i is observed in the current read,
hg,l,i,
otherwise,
ug,i = max
l
hg,l,i.
(15)
Here + denotes the score state after the current call, and ug,i is computed from the score state
available before each read. The current forward pass therefore updates scores for subsequent reads,
not its own selection. Unobserved tokens are not decayed. New score slots are zero-initialized,
scores are removed with evicted blocks, and all streaming state is reset between episodes. Statistics
are obtained from the forward passes already used for encoding or denoising; selection does not
require an additional full-memory scoring pass, an offline attention prior, or a K/V-magnitude term.
Per-block visual budgets and shared indices.
Each stage supports a separately configurable
visual-token budget for each historical block, specified either as a token count or as a retention ratio.
In the reported experiments, all active consumers use the same retention ratio, while maintaining
independent attention statistics. The main results use a historical visual-token retention ratio of 0.7.
An explicit token budget takes precedence over the ratio. Without an explicit budget, the per-block
visual budget is the ceiling of the retention ratio times the number of allocated visual slots; masked
camera slots remain invalid and their quota is not reassigned. The budget is allocated across cam-
eras: the implementation first reserves up to four tokens per camera when the budget permits, then
distributes the remaining capacity proportionally. If the total budget is smaller, the initial allocation
proceeds round-robin. Let κg,c be the resulting quota for camera c in each historical block at stage
g. At time t, let Vg
t,j,c denote the valid visual-token indices from camera c in a retained historical
block with observation time j < t, within that stage’s source memory. We define J g
t,j,c as the set of
visual-token indices selected from this group:
J g
t,j,c = TopKi∈Vg
t,j,c
 ug,i, min
 κg,c, |Vg
t,j,c|

.
(16)
The operator TopK returns the highest-scoring indices. Thus, selection is performed separately
within each historical block and camera, rather than globally across the entire history. Selected
positions are sorted back into their original order; equal-score ties favor earlier source positions.
The layerwise maximum in Eq. 15 yields one index set shared by keys and values at every layer,
with separate selection for each batch element. Padding slots retained for static tensor shapes keep
their validity masks and are not treated as valid selected tokens.
Table 4: Online KV selection settings for VLM pre-
fill, slow-branch denoising, and fast-branch denoising.
Source, Current, and Ret.
denote historical source,
current-block protection, and visual-token retention ra-
tio, respectively.
Consumer
Source
Current
Ret.
VLM prefill
Slow
–
0.7
Slow denoising
Slow
Yes
0.7
Fast denoising
Fast FIFO
Yes
0.7
ρ
0.2 (fixed)
Protected tokens and read lifetime.
The read operator combines the selected
visual KV entries with all instruction to-
kens from each historical block while
preserving their validity masks and tem-
poral order.
Instruction tokens are al-
ways retained and do not count toward
the visual-token budget.
During VLM
prefill, all cached blocks are treated as
history and are eligible for visual-token
selection, while the current observation is
encoded in full.
For action denoising, the newest block is always kept complete, and only earlier blocks are com-
pressed. Thus, in the fast branch, compression is applied only to preceding refined blocks when
16


available, while the current refined block remains intact. Selection affects only the temporary read
view; the complete KV blocks remain stored in memory as described in Appendix A.2.
Each denoising read view is constructed once per expert call and remains fixed throughout the cor-
responding flow solve. Attention statistics collected during the current call are used only to update
importance scores for subsequent reads. The selection mechanism operates within retained historical
blocks and does not restrict the action expert to a fixed number of recent observations.
A.4
FULL-BLOCK ADAPTER AND DUAL-RATE INFERENCE
Update schedule.
Using the notation of Section 3.4, the slow-update period V is an integer multi-
ple of the executed chunk size E. The history-sampling interval matches this period, as specified in
Eq. 8. With environment steps counted from episode start, the latest slow-update time and normal-
ized elapsed time are
ts = V ⌊t/V ⌋,
δt = t −ts
V
.
(17)
A slow refresh occurs at t = ts; other replanning calls use the fast pathway. This elapsed-time input
is distinct from flow time.
Current-observation encoding.
The high-rate pathway applies the shared image encoder to the
current three-view observation, producing Eimg(It) with 768 visual tokens of width 2048. The
observation encoder in Eq. 9 expands as
Encψ(Eimg(It), δt) = Trψ([Proj(Eimg(It)) + Ecam; MLPδ(δt) + eδ]) .
(18)
Here Proj maps visual features to width 1024, Ecam supplies learned camera embeddings, and
MLPδ with the learned embedding eδ produces one temporal-offset token; the semicolon denotes
token concatenation. The context Transformer Trψ has two layers, eight heads, and MLP width
4096, and processes the resulting 769 positions with validity masks. The pooler uses 32 learned
base queries to attend to the encoded context, followed by normalization and an MLP, producing the
compact queries Zt in Eq. 9. The base queries are learned parameters, whereas Zt depends on the
current observation. The encoder and pooler are shared across VLM layers.
Layerwise full-block refinement.
For layer l, separate normalization and projection operations
map Zt and the raw keys and values of Kc(ts) to editor width de = 1024, yielding eQt,l, eKl, and eVl.
The two-stage editor first reads the slow block and then decodes the routed features back to every
block position:
Rt,l = softmax
 eQt,l eK⊤
l
√de
+ Λts
!
eVl,
Dt,l = softmax
 eKlR⊤
t,l
√de
!
Rt,l,
[∆K(l)
t , ∆V (l)
t
] = Headl(Dt,l).
(19)
Here Λts is an additive validity mask, equal to zero at valid slow-block positions and negative
infinity at invalid positions. The softmax operations normalize over slow-block positions and routing
queries, respectively. The layer-specific head applies layer normalization and a 1024 →4096 →
512 MLP with GELU, producing separate 256-dimensional key and value residuals. Residuals at
invalid positions are set to zero. The residuals are added to the original, unprojected KV through
layerwise gates:
K(l)
t,ref = K(l)
c (ts) + tanh(g(l)
K )∆K(l)
t ,
V (l)
t,ref = V (l)
c (ts) + tanh(g(l)
V )∆V (l)
t
.
(20)
Here K(l)
c (ts) and V (l)
c (ts) are the layer-l keys and values of the complete slow anchor Kc(ts). The
refined pairs across all layers form e
Zt in Eq. 9; Fψ collects their predicted residuals, while Gψ
collects the effective gates tanh(g(l)
K ) and tanh(g(l)
V ), broadcast over token and feature dimensions.
The final residual projections are zero-initialized, and the raw scalar gates g(l)
K and g(l)
V are initialized
17


Algorithm 1 Dual-rate inference with online historical KV selection
Require: Action horizon H, executed chunk size E = H, slow period V
Require: Slow capacity Nslow = N = 4, fast capacity Nfast = 2
1: Initialize empty slow/fast memories and consumer-specific scores
2: for each replanning call at t within an episode do
3:
Observe current images It, state st, and instruction ℓ
4:
Set ts = V ⌊t/V ⌋, δt = (t −ts)/V
5:
if t = ts then
6:
Retain at most Nslow −1 complete slow blocks and their scores
7:
Form ReadVLM(K<t) and encode Kc
8:
Append full Kc to slow memory; update prefill scores
9:
Form bK act
t
by Eq. 6
10:
Set active consumer g ←s
11:
else
12:
Encode Zt and refine Kc(ts) to obtain the complete e
Zt
13:
Update the full fast FIFO using Eq. 21
14:
Form bK act
t
by Eq. 10
15:
Set active consumer g ←f
16:
end if
17:
Generate At using fixed bK act
t
and current state
18:
Update consumer-g scores using the completed flow solve
19:
if g = s then
20:
Clear fast FIFO and fast-denoising scores
21:
end if
22:
Execute the first E actions of At
23: end for
to arctanh(0.1). Refinement therefore starts as an identity update. The 32 routing queries are an
internal bottleneck, not the number of output KV tokens: the output preserves all 968 physical
positions. The adapter always reads the full canonical slow block, even when the VLM or expert
uses compressed read views. It has no separate task-text input; task information is carried by the
slow Image–Task KV. Current state enters the expert independently.
Slow and fast conditions.
The slow cache Kts retains at most Nslow = N = 4 complete blocks,
including the latest block. At a slow refresh, the expert condition combines the complete Kc with
selected history as in Eq. 6. At an intermediate update, each e
Zt is generated independently from
Kc(ts). The ordered queue Qfast stores these complete refined blocks. Let Mf
t denote its layerwise
temporal concatenation at time t, and Mf
<t the concatenation of its retained historical part Q<t
fast.
Their updates are
Mf
ts = ∅,
Mf
<t = PNfast−1(Mf
t−E),
Mf
t = Mf
<t ⊕e
Zt,
t > ts,
(21)
where Pk preserves up to the latest k complete blocks and Nfast = 2. The recursion applies only
at intermediate replanning calls t = ts + kE < V + ts, with integer k ≥1. The FIFO is reset to
Mf
ts = ∅at each slow refresh, so the first fast update has no historical fast block. At intermediate
replanning calls, the expert uses the fast condition in Eq. 10, protecting e
Zt while selecting historical
visual tokens with independent fast-denoising statistics. Slow and fast caches are not concatenated
into a single expert condition. The next slow refresh clears the fast FIFO and its scores.
A.5
TRAINING OBJECTIVES AND OPTIMIZATION
Grouped supervision.
Every dataset frame is eligible as a slow anchor. Each grouped sample
supplies one slow branch and two subsequent fast branches in chronological order, each with an H-
action target. The anchor branch uses the full slow condition, and no refined block from the anchor
18


observation is inserted as a valid fast entry. Later branches use the available uncompressed refined
FIFO in chronological order. The slow history is encoded once per grouped sample. Each branch
has its own current images, state, target actions, noise, and flow time. Missing historical blocks,
unavailable future branches, and action targets beyond the episode boundary are masked.
Flow-matching objective.
For branch j,
let Ktrain
j
denote its complete,
uncompressed
observation-KV condition, drawn from the slow cache or refined FIFO according to the branch.
For normalized target actions Aj and independent standard Gaussian noise ϵj, training constructs
eτj ∼Beta(1.5, 1),
τj = 0.999eτj + 0.001,
Aτj
j = (1 −τj)Aj + τjϵj.
(22)
The per-component velocity error and grouped loss are
ejhd = vθ(Aτj
j , τj; Ktrain
j
, sj)hd −(ϵj −Aj)hd.
(23)
Ldual = E
"P
j,h mjh D−1 PD
d=1 e2
jhd
max(1, P
j,h mjh)
#
,
D = 32.
(24)
Here h indexes the H action steps, d indexes the D action coordinates, sj is the current state of
branch j, and mjh masks invalid action steps. Here j is a branch index, not an environment time:
Aj is the normalized target chunk beginning at branch time tj, and sj = stj is its current state
in the model’s normalized, padded representation. Normalization is performed per anchor before
averaging across the batch. No additional adapter loss is used. The adapter learns through the action
objective, and online KV selection is not applied during training.
Initialization and gradient paths.
Training starts from the original π0.5 Base parameters, not a
previously fine-tuned causal or DOMINO-Long checkpoint. Full fine-tuning leaves the VLM, action
expert, adapter, and state/action projections trainable, and slow KV is not detached. However, the
high-rate visual tokens are explicitly stop-gradient outputs of SigLIP. The visual encoder is therefore
trained through the slow path, not directly through the high-rate feature path. This distinction is
retained even under full fine-tuning.
Flow integration.
Inference uses ten Euler steps from Gaussian noise to the action chunk:
X(0) ∼N(0, I),
X(k+1) = X(k) −
1
Ndenoise
vθ

X(k), 1 −
k
Ndenoise
; bK act
t
, st

.
(25)
Here Ndenoise = 10 and k = 0, . . . , Ndenoise −1; the normalized output is At = X(Ndenoise) before
denormalization and conversion to executable actions. The read-view KV remains fixed within the
solve. Each call predicts H actions and executes a chunk of size E = H before replanning.
A.6
EXPERIMENT-SPECIFIC CONFIGURATIONS
Table 5 lists the shared optimizer and model settings, with training budgets separated by evaluation
setting. DOMINO-Long uses all 500 demonstrations from the ten-task dataset, comprising 227,208
frames, with dataset-specific quantile normalization statistics. A global batch of 40 anchors pro-
duces tensors of shape [40, 3, H, 32], corresponding to 120 action branches before validity masking.
Dataset metadata timestamps do not determine the simulation or robot control frequency.
The documented DOMINO-Long run uses eight A100 80 GB GPUs with eight-way FSDP, 20 data-
loader workers, prefetch factor two, ordered loading, persistent workers, and no pinned memory.
Its cosine schedule spans 50,000 updates including warmup. Checkpoints are saved every 2,000
updates with model parameters, training state, and normalization assets; inference parameters are
the EMA weights. These hardware and checkpoint details describe the supplied DOMINO-Long
run.
B
SIMULATION EVALUATION PROTOCOLS
This appendix describes detailed experimental results for the four simulation benchmarks. Per-task
results for DOMINO and RoboTwin are reported below; DOMINO-Long results and LIBERO-Long
comparisons are provided in Tab. 1 and Tab. 2, respectively.
19


Table 5: Training and inference settings for DOMINO, DOMINO-Long, and the real-world tasks.
Training steps count optimizer updates. Capacities include the current block.
Setting
Value
Initialization / training
π0.5 Base / full fine-tuning
Slow / fast cache capacity
4/2 complete blocks
Action horizon H / executed chunk size E
25/25
Slow-update period
V = 3E
Main-result historical visual retention
0.7 for all active consumers
Supervised branches
3
Global batch size
40 anchors
Optimizer
AdamW
(β1, β2) / ϵ
(0.9, 0.95) / 10−8
Weight decay / global gradient clipping
10−10 / 1.0
Warmup
1,000 updates
Peak / terminal learning rate
2.5 × 10−5 / 2.5 × 10−6
Learning-rate schedule
Warmup followed by cosine decay
Parameter EMA / random seed
0.99 / 42
Compute / parameter precision
BF16 / FP32
Flow solver / integration steps
Euler / 10
History selection during training
Disabled
History selection during inference
Online-H2O, all three consumers
DOMINO training updates
75,000
DOMINO-Long training updates
50,000
Real-world training updates
50,000
B.1
DOMINO
We evaluate DOMINO in the L1 + clean setting. The evaluation covers the 35 tasks listed in
Table 6. We report complete-task success rate (SR) and the benchmark’s Manipulation Score (MS),
retaining the benchmark scoring conventions. Per-task entries are kept separate from the aggregate
comparison in the main text. SR is reported in percent, and MS follows the benchmark definition.
Training, memory capacities, and action-chunk settings are specified in Appendix A.6.
20


Table 6: Per-task DOMINO results under L1 + clean evaluation. Baseline SR (%) and MS for π0.5
and PUMA are transcribed from Table 16 of the DOMINO paper; D2-VLA results use a historical
visual KV retention ratio of 0.7. All scores are displayed to two decimal places.
Task
π0.5
PUMA
D2-VLA
SR(%) ↑
MS(%) ↑
SR(%) ↑
MS(%) ↑
SR(%) ↑
MS(%) ↑
Adjust Bottle
52.00
71.45
65.00
74.04
75.00
78.18
Beat Block Hammer
10.00
23.22
15.00
29.09
23.00
32.29
Click Alarmclock
14.00
18.47
4.00
8.38
5.00
8.74
Click Bell
0.00
6.35
3.00
13.64
11.00
19.00
Dump Bin Bigbin
0.00
16.64
0.00
39.05
38.00
44.32
Grab Roller
10.00
34.32
33.00
56.48
38.00
42.05
Handover Block
1.00
33.95
17.00
64.79
13.00
46.45
Handover Mic
5.00
29.10
35.00
54.40
46.00
59.31
Hanging Mug
5.00
25.59
9.00
41.74
26.00
42.34
Move Can Pot
7.00
40.34
22.00
47.80
21.00
41.64
Move Pillbottle Pad
6.00
15.93
14.00
21.82
18.00
22.81
Move Playingcard Away
8.00
24.84
6.00
27.90
13.00
27.14
Move Stapler Pad
0.00
13.38
1.00
16.24
2.00
10.35
Place A2B Left
2.00
26.04
13.00
41.65
18.00
37.46
Place A2B Right
1.00
23.63
8.00
34.39
18.00
35.78
Place Bread Basket
8.00
15.89
12.00
22.44
50.00
53.56
Place Bread Skillet
9.00
22.30
19.00
35.95
25.00
44.46
Place Can Basket
6.00
29.48
14.00
45.79
14.00
34.18
Place Container Plate
22.00
28.46
26.00
34.45
78.00
78.53
Place Empty Cup
2.00
12.71
7.00
17.85
24.00
30.67
Place Fan
2.00
11.72
8.00
14.36
2.00
9.59
Place Mouse Pad
5.00
19.03
2.00
17.86
16.00
26.22
Place Object Basket
11.00
30.19
13.00
41.67
41.00
50.04
Place Object Scale
3.00
15.37
4.00
16.05
18.00
24.80
Place Object Stand
1.00
8.97
1.00
10.66
59.00
60.98
Place Phone Stand
2.00
17.98
6.00
19.02
32.00
38.57
Place Shoe
25.00
32.84
16.00
27.23
64.00
69.63
Press Stapler
6.00
13.27
10.00
18.40
36.00
42.75
Put Bottles Dustbin
17.00
33.30
23.00
36.82
14.00
20.41
Put Object Cabinet
11.00
46.24
34.00
61.64
41.00
66.63
Rotate QRcode
4.00
17.90
14.00
29.27
13.00
24.83
Scan Object
1.00
20.48
5.00
30.58
5.00
24.21
Shake Bottle
33.00
49.40
55.00
65.37
47.00
57.42
Shake Bottle Horizontally
42.00
62.72
75.00
80.57
61.00
79.53
Stamp Seal
6.00
22.58
13.00
26.50
21.00
36.48
Average
9.63
26.17
17.20
34.97
29.31
40.61
B.2
DOMINO-LONG
Table 7: DOMINO-Long tasks and their memory requirements.
ID
Task
Information retained for later action
1
Bottle Return
Original region of the moving bottle.
2
Can Grasp
Identity of the previously observed can.
3
Stack Two
Presentation order of two blocks.
4
Two Color Cue
Colors specifying the object and destination.
5
Can Placement
Basket indicated by a transient visual cue.
6
Tray Swap
Original source region of the transferred block.
7
Screen Cue
Screen color specifying the target block.
8
Stack Three
Presentation order of three blocks.
9
Motion Memory
Object that previously moved leftward.
10 Color Memory
Association between a color and a region.
DOMINO-Long
Dai
et
al.
(2026) comprises 10 simulated
tabletop
manipulation
tasks
that combine visual memory
with manipulation of moving
objects. The robot must retain
information from earlier obser-
vations and use it to determine
later manipulation goals. Such
information
includes
object
locations,
identities,
motion
directions,
presentation order,
and color–region associations.
The benchmark uses a simulated
Aloha-AgileX dual-arm robot with one head camera and two wrist cameras. The tasks introduce
temporal dependence in different ways. In cue-based tasks, relevant visual cues disappear before
21


Figure 5: Overview of DOMINO-Long tasks. Visualization of the ten long-horizon manipulation
tasks introduced in DOMINO-Long.
execution; in sequence-based tasks, objects are presented earlier and later reappear in different spa-
tial arrangements; and in manipulation-dependent tasks, previous actions modify the scene and must
be remembered for later decisions.
The robot must preserve relevant history while interacting with moving objects. The 10 tasks and
their memory requirements are shown in Fig. 5 and Tab. 7.
B.2.1
TASK DEFINITIONS
Task 1: Bottle Return.
Four visually identical square regions mark possible bottle origins on the
table. A bottle initially occupies one of these regions and subsequently moves away from it. The
robot must intercept and grasp the bottle, orient it upright, and return it to the region that it originally
occupied. The required final configuration is an upright, released bottle stably contained within that
region. The initial region varies across demonstrations using a balanced schedule over the four
candidates, while the region layout remains fixed. This task requires retaining an object’s original
location as its current position changes, and using that remembered location as the placement goal.
Task 2: Can Grasp.
A single can first moves across the scene and exits the visible workspace.
After an interval, the same can returns together with two distractor cans. The robot must recognize
the previously observed can, grasp it while it moves, and place it upright at a designated drop-off
location. The target identity is sampled from a set of six can appearances, and two distinct distractor
identities are selected from the remaining candidates. The lane used during the initial presentation
and the target’s lane during the subsequent encounter are varied separately, with small lane-position
perturbations. The task therefore requires matching object identity across two encounters despite a
change in spatial context and the introduction of distractors.
Task 3: Stack Two.
A red block and a green block traverse the scene one at a time, establishing
a temporal presentation order. After this presentation, both blocks re-enter the workspace together
in a randomized spatial arrangement. The robot must construct a two-block stack at a designated
stacking area: the first block observed must form the base, and the second must be placed on top. The
presentation order and the assignment of colors to spatial slots are varied separately, so the required
stacking order cannot be read directly from the blocks’ current left-to-right or lane arrangement.
Correct completion requires the ordered stack to remain stable after release. This task combines
memory for a two-item sequence with moving-object acquisition and precise placement.
Task 4: Two Color Cue.
A screen presents two color cues in sequence, separated by a blank
interval. The first cue specifies which colored block to manipulate, whereas the second specifies the
destination region. Both cues disappear before manipulation. The robot subsequently encounters
red, green, and blue moving blocks and must place the block specified by the first cue into the
region specified by the second. The two cue colors are sampled independently and may coincide;
22


the block-to-lane assignment also varies. The three destination regions retain their visible colors and
fixed color-to-location mapping. The central memory requirement is to preserve both cue values
and their distinct semantic roles, binding the first to object selection and the second to destination
selection.
Task 5: Can Placement.
Two visually identical baskets occupy the left and right sides of the
workspace. A transient red marker appears in front of one basket to indicate the intended desti-
nation and is then removed. The robot must retain this destination information while acquiring a
moving can, and deposit the can inside the previously indicated basket. Correct completion re-
quires releasing the can into the cued basket rather than the alternative basket. The cued side and
the can’s motion-side configuration vary across demonstrations, while the basket and can models
remain fixed. This task tests whether a transient spatial instruction can be maintained through the
intervening tracking and grasping actions.
Task 6: Tray Swap.
Two stationary source regions are located on opposite sides of the table.
Block A starts in one of these regions, while block B is carried by a moving tray. The robot must
first transfer A onto the tray and then retrieve B from the tray and place it into the region originally
occupied by A. Once A has been removed, its source region is empty; the robot must retain this
source assignment through the intervening transfer. The source side, the tray’s initial direction of
travel along the table, and the distinct colors assigned to the two blocks vary across demonstrations.
Completion requires both parts of the exchange: A is carried by the tray and B is released at A’s
original source region.
Task 7: Screen Cue.
A screen briefly displays red, green, or blue and subsequently turns off.
Three blocks with these respective colors then move through the workspace. The robot must re-
member the displayed color, grasp the matching block, and place it at a fixed designated destination.
The cue color and the permutation of block colors across spatial slots vary across demonstrations
using a balanced sampling schedule. Consequently, the target is specified by the earlier screen cue
rather than by a fixed lane. Unlike Task 4, this task requires remembering only one color instruction:
it selects the object, while the destination remains unchanged across trials.
Task 8: Stack Three.
Red, green, and yellow blocks traverse the scene individually in a sampled
order. They subsequently re-enter together with a separately sampled assignment to spatial slots.
The robot must reconstruct the presentation order as a vertical stack: the first observed block forms
the bottom layer, the second forms the middle layer, and the third forms the top layer. All six
temporal orders and all six spatial permutations are included in the randomization scheme. Correct
completion requires a stable, released tower with the specified bottom-to-top ordering. Relative to
Task 3, this task increases the number of identities whose order must be retained and extends the
manipulation sequence to three object acquisitions and placements.
Task 9: Motion Memory.
A red block and a blue block initially traverse the scene in opposite
directions: one moves from left to right and the other from right to left. After the demonstration and
an intervening interval, the blocks reappear with a randomized lane assignment. During this retrieval
stage, both blocks move rightward. The robot must select the block that moved leftward during the
earlier demonstration, grasp it, and place it at a fixed destination. The assignment of colors to initial
motion directions, the demonstration lane assignment, and the target’s retrieval lane vary across
demonstrations. The task therefore requires associating an object identity with its previous motion
direction; its direction at the time of grasping does not identify the target.
Task 10: Color Memory.
Two spatial regions briefly display red and blue, with one color assigned
to each region. The colored cues then disappear, leaving visually identical neutral destination re-
gions. A single red or blue query block subsequently enters the workspace. The robot must grasp
this block and place it into the region that previously displayed the same color. The left–right assign-
ment of the two region colors, the query-block color, and its entry lane vary across demonstrations.
Correct completion requires releasing the block within the matching region. This task tests retention
of a color-to-location association: the visible query color must retrieve a destination from an earlier
scene, after the regions themselves no longer reveal their colors.
23


Table 8: Complete-task success rate (SR, %) on all 50 RoboTwin 2.0 Chen et al. (2025a) tasks. Task
names are formatted from the corresponding environment identifiers.
Task
SR
Task
SR
Task
SR
Adjust Bottle
100%
Open Microwave
86%
Place Object Stand
90%
Beat Block Hammer
82%
Pick Diverse Bottles
48%
Place Phone Stand
72%
Blocks Ranking RGB
72%
Pick Dual Bottles
62%
Place Shoe
82%
Blocks Ranking Size
64%
Place A2B Left
70%
Press Stapler
86%
Click Alarmclock
100%
Place A2B Right
72%
Put Bottles Dustbin
68%
Click Bell
100%
Place Bread Basket
58%
Put Object Cabinet
38%
Dump Bin Bigbin
96%
Place Bread Skillet
78%
Rotate QRcode
78%
Grab Roller
100%
Place Burger Fries
94%
Scan Object
34%
Handover Block
62%
Place Can Basket
54%
Shake Bottle
100%
Handover Mic
96%
Place Cans Plasticbox
54%
Shake Bottle Horizontally
100%
Hanging Mug
24%
Place Container Plate
90%
Stack Blocks Three
84%
Lift Pot
96%
Place Dual Shoes
62%
Stack Blocks Two
96%
Move Can Pot
74%
Place Empty Cup
94%
Stack Bowls Three
78%
Move Pillbottle Pad
66%
Place Fan
72%
Stack Bowls Two
94%
Move Playingcard Away
80%
Place Mouse Pad
38%
Stamp Seal
76%
Move Stapler Pad
28%
Place Object Basket
76%
Turn Switch
42%
Open Laptop
92%
Place Object Scale
58%
Average SR 74.32%
B.3
RANDOMIZATION AND DEMONSTRATION COLLECTION
Randomization is defined separately for each task to vary the relationship between the remembered
information and the required action. Depending on the task, randomized factors include object
identity, cue color, source or destination side, presentation order, motion-direction assignment, and
object-to-lane assignment. Several tasks use balanced schedules over discrete factor combinations
to improve coverage within a finite demonstration set. The suite does not assume that every scene
attribute is randomized: destination layouts, camera configurations, and other environmental settings
can remain fixed. These variations reduce specific correlations, such as always encountering a target
in the same lane, but do not by themselves establish the absence of all alternative visual or behavioral
cues.
The dataset used for the reported experiments contains 50 demonstrations for each of the ten tasks,
totaling 500 demonstrations. All 500 demonstrations are used for training, as described in Sec-
tion 5.3 and Appendix A.6.
B.4
LIBERO-LONG
LIBERO-Long provides a complementary long-horizon simulation benchmark. We evaluate all ten
tasks with the high-rate pathway disabled, using full-KV conditioning during training and online
historical selection for the VLM and action expert during inference. Results are reported in Tab. 2.
B.5
ROBOTWIN 2.0
We evaluate all 50 RoboTwin 2.0 tasks in the clean setting as a supplementary bimanual simulation
benchmark. The high-rate pathway is disabled; training uses full-KV conditioning, and inference
uses online historical selection for the VLM and action expert. Tab. 8 reports complete-task SR for
each task, with task names corresponding to the environment identifiers.
C
REAL-WORLD SETUP, TASKS, AND EVALUATION
We design eight real-world manipulation tasks, organized into four long-horizon tasks and four long-
horizon dynamic tasks. The first group evaluates the execution of ordered subgoals and tracking of
object assignments across successive manipulations. The second group is designed to examine how
task context is combined with updated visual observations during multi-stage interaction.
24


We first describe the real-world platform and the observation–action interface used for deployment
in Appendix C.1. We then introduce the four long-horizon static tasks in Appendix C.2 and four
long-horizon dynamic tasks in Appendix C.3, highlighting the memory and interaction requirements
of each setting. Finally, we define the complete-task success criterion and report quantitative results
together with representative real-world examples in Appendix C.4.
C.1
PLATFORM AND OBSERVATION–ACTION INTERFACE
Experiments use a Unitree G1D robot. The observation interface includes stereo head images and
left/right wrist views. For vertical concatenation, each head image is resized to width 224 and height
112 using bilinear interpolation. The left and right images are then stacked vertically, in that order, to
form one 224 × 224 head-view input. Together with the two wrist views, this preserves the model’s
three-view interface rather than introducing a fourth camera-token group.
The Unitree state/action interface contains seven joint dimensions per arm and two gripper dimen-
sions in total. Joint actions are made relative to the branch’s current state, whereas gripper actions
remain absolute; normalization and padding follow Appendix A.1. Real-world training uses 50,000
updates, four slow blocks, and two fast blocks, with action horizon H and executed chunk size
E = H. Online selection is enabled for VLM prefill and for both slow- and fast-branch denoising
at evaluation.
C.2
LONG-HORIZON STATIC TASKS
(L1) Ordered Cup Stacking. The robot stacks a set of cups in a specified order. The task evaluates
adherence to an ordered manipulation sequence and tracking of progress across successive stacking
operations. Real world experiments photos can be seen in Fig. 6.
(L2) Cross-Plate Object Swap. The robot exchanges the objects between two plates so that each
plate ends with the contents initially placed in the other. The task evaluates object reassignment
across a sequence of pick-and-place operations. Real world experiments photos can be seen in
Fig. 6.
(L3) Ordered Object Retrieval. The robot removes objects from a plate in a specified sequence.
The task evaluates whether successive object selections follow the prescribed order throughout exe-
cution. Real world experiments photos can be seen in Fig. 6.
(L4) Original-Layout Restoration. The robot first places differently colored blocks into a plate,
then retrieves them and returns each block to its original location. The task evaluates retention of
object–location associations across an intervening rearrangement phase. Real world experiments
photos can be seen in Fig. 6.
C.3
LONG-HORIZON DYNAMIC TASKS
(D1) Object Return. The robot first transfers a toy from one plate to another. It then grasps a new
toy arriving on a conveyor belt and places it at the original toy’s previous location in the source plate.
The task combines an earlier spatial reference with manipulation of a newly arriving object. Real
world experiments photos can be seen in Fig. 7.
(D2) Match and Pick. The robot first observes a colored reference block passing along the con-
veyor. When two differently colored blocks subsequently arrive, it must grasp the block matching
the reference color. The task couples retention of an earlier color cue with timely selection of a
moving target. Real world experiments photos can be seen in Fig. 7.
(D3) Sequential Pick. The robot first observes two differently colored blocks passing along the
conveyor in sequence. When two blocks of the same colors subsequently arrive, it must grasp them
in the previously observed color order. The task combines temporal-order recall with sequential
grasping of moving objects. Real world experiments photos can be seen in Fig. 7.
(D4) Color Sorting. The robot first observes color cues indicating a color-to-compartment mapping.
The cues subsequently disappear or become occluded, requiring the robot to retain this mapping.
Objects move with a conveyor belt; the robot must grasp them and place each into the compart-
ment associated with its color. The conveyor provides the scene dynamics, while other stationary
25


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(a) Ordered Cup Stacking
(b) Cross-Plate Object Swap
(c) Ordered Object Retrieval
(d) Original-Layout Restoration
Figure 6: Long-horizon tasks.
26


objects have no programmed autonomous changes. The task tests memory for earlier color–location
associations together with timely manipulation of moving objects. Examples are shown in Fig. 7.
C.4
EVALUATION PROTOCOL AND ADDITIONAL EXAMPLES
Evaluation Protocol. We use complete-task suc-
cess rate (SR) as the primary metric for real-world
evaluation. A trial is considered successful only
when the full manipulation sequence is completed,
including the required object identities, action or-
der, and final configuration when applicable. In-
termediate success, such as a correct grasp or cue
recognition, does not count as task completion.
Fig. 4 presents representative dynamic-task execu-
tions and comparisons. Additional demonstrations
of the static and dynamic tasks are provided in Ap-
pendices C.2 and C.3, respectively.
Table 9: Complete-task SR (%) on the four long-
horizon static real-world tasks. M-VLA and Ours
denotes Memory-VLA and D2−V LA, respectively.
Task
π0.5 M-VLA Ours
L1: Ordered Cup Stacking
70
60
80
L2: Cross-Plate Object Swap
50
40
75
L3: Ordered Object Retrieval
45
35
65
L4: Original-Layout Restoration
40
25
65
Average
51.25
40
71.25
D
MEMORY ANALYSIS AND ABLATION STUDIES
We provide detailed analysis of the memory mechanisms in D2-VLA and examine their effects on
both task performance and inference efficiency in this section. We first visualize how the VLM
and action expert attend to historical KV states, highlighting their distinct patterns of historical
context usage. We then study the accuracy–memory–latency trade-off of historical KV caching
by comparing single-observation inference, uncompressed full-KV reads, and our selective Dual-
Memory design. Next, we analyze the effect of historical KV retention ratios to characterize how
aggressively the cached context can be compressed without sacrificing task performance. Finally,
we ablate the update frequency of the high-rate pathway to evaluate how intermediate visual updates
between VLM refreshes contribute to dynamic long-horizon control.
D.1
HISTORICAL KV ATTENTION ANALYSIS
Fig. 8 and Fig. 9 show the existing visualizations of historical KV attention for LIBERO Dai et al.
(2026) and RoboTwin Chen et al. (2025a). They separate the VLM and action-expert read patterns
at two observation chunks. These plots are diagnostic visualizations, not an offline prior used by
the online selector. These examples supplement the qualitative attention-asymmetry and token-
concentration analysis in Section 3.3. They do not establish that the expert always selects more
recent frames: the implemented selector ranks tokens within each retained historical block, without
a separate recent-frame-only rule.
D.2
ACCURACY–MEMORY–LATENCY TRADE-OFF OF KV CACHING
Tab. 10 examines the efficiency–performance trade-off of historical KV memory. Full KV Cache de-
notes uncompressed historical KV reads for all active consumers in each benchmark. On LIBERO-
Long and RoboTwin 2.0, the high-rate pathway is disabled, and Full KV Cache uses complete
historical KV reads for VLM prefill and action-expert denoising. On DOMINO, the dual-frequency
pathway remains enabled: VLM prefill and slow-branch denoising read the complete retained slow-
memory history, while fast-branch denoising reads the complete retained fast-memory history. Thus,
the DOMINO Full KV Cache baseline includes both adapter-based visual updates and fast memory.
D2-VLA applies consumer-specific selection to the corresponding historical reads, while preserving
instruction tokens and complete current blocks. Both historical-memory variants retain complete
KV blocks in persistent storage; selection changes only the temporary read views.
Compared with the single-observation π0.5 baseline, these benchmark-specific D2-VLA configu-
rations achieve substantially higher success rates with additional inference cost.
On LIBERO-
Long, the success rate increases from 92.4% to 97.5%, while latency increases from 141.03 ms
to 174.92 ms and peak memory from 9,157 MiB to 9,654 MiB. On RoboTwin 2.0 and DOMINO,
D2-VLA improves success by 17.3 and 19.7 percentage points, respectively, while increasing peak
27


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(a) Object Return
(b) Match and Pick
(c) Sequential Pick
(d) Color Sorting
Figure 7: Long-horizon dynamic tasks.
28


(a) LIBERO chunk5 attention distribution.
(b) LIBERO chunk6 attention distribution.
Figure 8: Attention analysis of the VLM and diffusion action expert over historical KV caches.
(a) RoboTwin chunk2 attention distribution.
(b) RoboTwin chunk3 attention distribution.
Figure 9: Attention analysis of the VLM and diffusion action expert over historical KV caches.
memory by only about 1–2% over the single-observation baseline. These results show that his-
torical conditioning, together with intermediate visual updates on DOMINO, provides substantial
performance gains with comparatively limited increases in peak memory usage.
Relative to Full KV Cache, D2-VLA achieves higher success rates on all three benchmarks while re-
ducing both latency and peak memory usage. On LIBERO-Long, latency decreases from 184.69 ms
to 174.92 ms and peak memory from 10,738 MiB to 9,654 MiB, corresponding to approximately
5.3% lower latency and 10.1% lower memory, while success increases from 94.5% to 97.5%. Sim-
ilar trends hold on RoboTwin 2.0 and DOMINO, where peak memory decreases by approximately
4.1% and 6.4%, respectively, with lower inference latency in both cases. In particular, the DOMINO
comparison evaluates selective versus uncompressed historical reads with the high-rate pathway en-
abled in both variants. These results support consumer-specific historical KV selection over reading
all tokens in the retained blocks.
The comparison also suggests a benefit of selective historical KV reads beyond computational ef-
ficiency. Full KV Cache exposes each consumer to all tokens in its retained historical blocks, in-
cluding potentially irrelevant or redundant context. In contrast, Dual-Memory constructs separate
historical read views using consumer-specific online attention statistics: VLM prefill and slow de-
noising select from slow memory, while fast denoising selects from fast memory when the high-rate
pathway is enabled. The higher success rates suggest that selective reads may help filter redundant
context, although this comparison alone does not isolate that mechanism. Overall, D2-VLA pro-
vides a favorable balance between task performance and inference cost through selective historical
reads, without discarding tokens from the retained persistent KV blocks.
D.3
CONSUMER-SPECIFIC SELECTION ANALYSIS
We evaluate historical visual-token retention ratios of 1.0 (uncompressed), 0.9, 0.8, 0.7, 0.6, 0.5, 0.4,
and 0.3. Within each experiment, VLM prefill, slow denoising, and fast denoising use the same ratio
while maintaining independent attention statistics. The score-retention coefficient is held fixed at
ρ = 0.2 across this sweep. The main results use a ratio of 0.7. Fig. 10 (b) shows DOMINO success
rates across historical visual-token retention ratios. Instruction tokens and the current KV block
29


Figure 10: Accuracy–efficiency and historical KV-retention analysis. (a) Comparison with the
single-observation baseline and Full KV Cache. LBO-L, RBT2.0, and DMO denote the LIBERO-
Long Dai et al. (2026), RoboTwin 2.0 Chen et al. (2025a), and DOMINO Dai et al. (2026) bench-
marks, respectively. SR, Lat., and Mem. refer to average success rate, inference latency, and peak
GPU memory usage; (b) DOMINO success rate under different historical visual KV-retention ratios.
Data
Method SR↑
Lat.↓Mem.↓
LBO-L
π0.5
92.4 141.03
9157
Full KV 94.5 184.69 10738
Ours
97.5 174.92
9654
RBT2.0
π0.5
57.0
60.10
20854
Full KV 73.12 71.60
21973
Ours
74.3
70.10
21068
DMO
π0.5
9.6
89.62
20962
Full KV 28.5
93.83
22773
Ours
29.3
91.43
21309
(a) Accuracy–efficiency comparison.
(b) Historical KV-retention analysis.
remain uncompressed, so these ratios do not describe the entire denoising prefix. Equal retention
ratios do not imply shared scores or identical selected indices. In the current implementation, an
uncompressed read can be obtained either with unit retention ratios and no explicit token budgets,
or by disabling selection; latency comparisons state that online scoring remains enabled.
D.4
UPDATE-FREQUENCY ABLATION
Table 10: Dual-frequency ablation on DOMINO. “–” disables the high-rate pathway; the enabled
settings use E = 25 and vary the slow-update period V .
Setting
Period ratio V/E
SR (%)
Without dual-frequency mechanism
–
16.1
V : E = 50 : 25
2
27.6
V : E = 75 : 25
3
29.3
Tab. 10 compares slow-only inference with the dual-frequency mechanism disabled (“–”) against
(V, E) = (50, 25) and (75, 25). The enabled variants fix H = E = 25, yielding period ratios of
2 and 3 and one or two intermediate adapter calls per slow cycle, respectively. They achieve SRs
of 27.6% and 29.3%, compared with 16.1% without the high-rate pathway, supporting the benefit
of incorporating fresh observations between VLM updates. The two enabled settings differ in the
slow-refresh interval and the number of intermediate updates, not in the absolute action-replanning
rate. Our main configuration uses V = 3E and H = E = 25.
30
