Achieve What You Imagined: Learning to Align Actions with Visual Plans
Yuheng Qiao1,† Ziran Wei1,† Xiaohan Wang2 Daqiang Guo3 Yichen Luo1 Zhibo Pang4
Peng Zhou5,∗Sichao Liu1,∗
1KTH
2Beihang University
3The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou)
4Peking
University
5Great Bay University
Abstract— World-action models can jointly predict future
visual observations and robot actions. However, discrepancies
may exist between their visual predictions and the consequences
implied by generated actions. We observe that WAMs can
often generate visually plausible task-completion outcomes
before producing action sequences that reliably achieve them.
Consequently, we treat the WAM-generated visual prediction
as a goal-conditioned visual proposal rather than a directly
executable plan. We use a frozen action-conditioned world
model to predict action-conditioned consequences and con-
struct feedback based on consistency between the two future
predictions and alignment with the terminal goal. Leveraging
this feedback, we employ Flow Policy Optimization (FPO) to
optimize the action head of the WAM. This framework avoids
online robot interaction and additional training of task-specific
reward models. Across four real-world UR5 manipulation tasks,
our method increases the mean success rate from 43.4% to
75.1%, compared with 61.4% for π0.5. These results show that
cross-model prediction discrepancy can provide useful feedback
for improving robot policies under the evaluated manipulation
tasks. Website: https://imagine-to-achieve.github.
io/
I. INTRODUCTION
Robot
learning
is
increasingly
moving
from
task-
specific controllers toward large pretrained policies that
enable
transfer
across
tasks
and
robot
embodiments.
Vision–language–action (VLA) models map observations
and instructions directly to actions [1], [2], [3], while
world–action models (WAMs) additionally predict future
visual observations associated with generated actions [4],
[5]. Reinforcement learning is a common approach for
post-training such policies, but its effectiveness depends
on obtaining informative rollout feedback, which remains
challenging in low-data settings. Binary terminal rewards are
well aligned with the task but often too sparse early on:
when a weak base policy fails across sampled rollouts, they
provide limited task-directed signal [6], [7]. Task-matched
demonstrations raise the initial success rate but shift the
burden back to collecting expert data [8]. Learned visual
or vision–language evaluators [9], [10] provide denser feed-
back, but require additional pipelines for data preparation,
training, calibration, and deployment [11]. We therefore ask
whether a pretrained policy can obtain dense, task-relevant
feedback from its predictive models, without training an
additional task-specific reward model or requiring online
robot interaction.
†Equal contributor. ∗Corresponding authors: Sichao Liu (sicliu@kth.se)
& Peng Zhou (pzhou@gbu.edu.cn).
Imagine Perfectly ！
😀
Action Error ？
😭
Use this gap to reinforce...🤔
🤖
Execute 
Action
Red Duck！
Nothing？
Fig. 1.
Imagination–consequence gap. From the same instruction and
initial state, the world–action model imagines a trajectory that completes
the task, but its generated actions fail to execute it. The model already
knows what success looks like before it can act on it — we turn this gap
into a training signal.
A WAM provides a source of task-level visual predic-
tion, since its generated video can depict possible task-
completion outcomes. During training, however, the two
output streams can diverge: the generated video may show
task completion, while the action chunk generated alongside
it may not lead to the corresponding predicted consequence
(Fig. 1). The model can develop stronger task-completion
visual prediction before generating action sequences that
reliably lead to such outcomes, suggesting an opportunity
to improve action generation. However, the world model’s
visual predictions (videos) do not embed physics information
or provide feasibility validation, indicating that a visual plan
is not necessarily a valid motor plan. Under these constraints,
we treat the WAM-generated visual prediction as a goal-
conditioned visual proposal and use a separately pretrained,
frozen action-conditioned world model to estimate the conse-
quences of generated actions. The feedback signal measures
trajectory-level agreement between the two predictions and
alignment of the final predicted frame with the task goal.
Because the video head and consequence model are frozen
during optimization, the policy cannot directly modify the
predictive models that generate the feedback signal. This
provides dense rollout-level feedback without online robot
interaction, reward labels, or a separately trained success
detector, which can then be used for policy optimization.
That step is not straightforward for a flow-based WAM.
arXiv:2609.33832v1  [cs.RO]  27 Sep 2026


Demonstration
Start image Goal image
Start image
Prompt
World Action Model
Video Generator
Action Generator
World Model
Future frames
Actions
Predicted frames
Imagined video
Video Generator prediction
Visual plan
Action-conditioned rollout
World Model prediction
Success
Failure
Video
similarity
Similar
Similar
Visual gap
Visual gap
Goal frame from demonstration
Goal frame
Last frame
Last predicted frame
Goal similarity
Video similarity
Goal similarity
Reward
Before
After
Action-head update
Flow Policy Optimization
Favor actions with smaller visual gaps
Fig. 2.
Overview of imagination-action alignment for robot manipulation. From the start image and instruction, WAM rolls out future video and
actions. A frozen action-conditioned world model predicts what those actions would actually produce and supplies the next observation. We evaluate action
consequences using trajectory similarity between the two videos and goal similarity against a demonstration goal frame. Because both video predictors
stay frozen (snowflake), the policy can only raise these rewards by changing its actions. These rewards benefit FPO, which updates the action head (flame)
using a clipped surrogate objective.
Existing RL methods for flow policies often rely on explicit
sampling formulations or stochastic reformulations to obtain
tractable optimization objectives [12], [13]. Cosmos3 instead
samples video and actions using UniPC, a high-order multi-
step solver for which such per-step likelihood formulations
are not directly available. We therefore adapt Flow Policy
Optimization [14], which builds an advantage-weighted sur-
rogate from conditional flow-matching losses while treating
the sampler as a black box. This allows us to optimize a flow-
based robot policy under a pretrained high-order multi-step
sampler, enabling optimization through Cosmos3’s native
UniPC sampling procedure while updating only the action
head.
The main contributions of this work are:
• We introduce a world-model-guided RL framework that
exploits the discrepancy between WAM-generated vi-
sual predictions and action-conditioned consequences
predicted by a frozen world model to refine robot
policies without online robot interaction.
• We identify an imagination–consequence gap in world-
action models and leverage it as dense rollout-level
feedback. A frozen pretrained action-conditioned world
model provides feedback while avoiding direct updates
to the feedback-generating models.
• We adapt Flow Policy Optimization for flow-based
world-action policies with pretrained high-order multi-
step samplers, enabling action-head-only optimization
under the native UniPC sampling procedure.
II. RELATED WORK
Video and world action models for control: Video and
world models support robot control by predicting future
observations, states, or task-relevant representations for plan-
ning and manipulation. One line generates future videos
as goal-conditioned visual predictions and maps them into
actions with a separate inverse dynamics model [4], [15],
[16], decoupling high-level prediction from low-level control
but introducing the challenge of maintaining consistency
between predicted visual trajectories and generated actions.
A second line predicts observations and actions jointly in a
unified model, sharing representations or parameters across
both modalities [17], [18], [19], [20]. A third line predicts
compact latent world states [21], [22], [23], [24], improving
efficiency while providing less direct access to pixel-level
observations for visual consistency evaluation. We follow
the joint world-action modeling paradigm and build on
Cosmos3 [5]. However, existing joint models optimize visual
and action generation objectives separately, while explicit
alignment between predicted visual outcomes and action-
conditioned consequences remains insufficiently studied.
World models for action outcome prediction: Action-
conditioned world models predict future observations con-
ditioned on states and actions, estimating possible action
consequences. Existing approaches either use explicit action
conditioning with control semantics [25], [26], [27], [28]
or learn latent action representations from video [29], [30],
[31]. While latent-action models enable action-free learning
and cross-embodiment transfer, their latent interfaces are
not directly aligned with explicit robot commands. Ctrl-
World follows the explicit-action paradigm and supports
long-horizon prediction through multi-view prediction, ac-
tion conditioning, and pose-based memory retrieval [25]. We
use a frozen pretrained action-conditioned world model as
an external consequence predictor, whose rollouts provide
alignment feedback between action consequences and WAM
visual predictions.
RL for generative robot policies: Reinforcement learning
for generative robot policies optimizes pretrained diffusion or
flow-based policies using task-level feedback while preserv-


ing their sampling procedures. DDPO optimizes diffusion
policies with policy gradients [32], πRL extends flow-based
RL to VLA models [12], and Flow-GRPO introduces SDE-
based formulations for flow optimization [13]. However,
these methods typically rely on explicit sampling formula-
tions that are not directly available for the high-order solvers
used by recent world-action models. FPO addresses this
limitation by deriving an advantage-weighted surrogate from
conditional flow-matching losses while treating the sampler
as a black box [14]. Unlike WAM-RL, which relies on
environment interaction and jointly updates the actor and
world model [33], we perform offline post-training with
frozen predictive models and optimize only the action head
using FPO under Cosmos3’s native UniPC sampler.
III. PRELIMINARIES
A. Flow-matching generative policies
Flow matching trains continuous normalizing flows by
regressing a time-dependent vector field along prescribed
conditional probability paths between noise and data. Given
a condition c, the learned field vθ defines the ordinary
differential equation
z0 ∼p0,
dzτ
dτ = vθ(zτ,τ | c),
τ ∈[0,1],
(1)
where p0 is the base distribution and zτ the state at time
τ along the trajectory integrated from z0, with τ = 0 and 1
corresponding to noise and the generated endpoint.
B. Flow Policy Optimization
Flow Policy Optimization (FPO) constructs a surrogate
policy ratio from conditional flow-matching (CFM) losses,
avoiding the need to evaluate the exact likelihood of a flow-
based policy. For a generated sample z under condition c, let
bLCFM,θ(z | c) denote an empirical estimate of its CFM loss
under parameters θ. FPO defines the surrogate ratio as
bρFPO
θ
(z | c) = exp
h
bLCFM,θold(z | c)−bLCFM,θ(z | c)
i
,
(2)
where θold generated z and θ is the current policy being
optimized. Both losses use the same sample, condition, and
time–noise pairs. This ratio is a surrogate for policy change,
not the exact likelihood ratio pθ(z | c)/pθold(z | c).
IV. METHOD
Fig. 2 overviews our world-model-guided reinforcement-
learning framework. The world-action model generates a
goal-conditioned visual prediction and an action chunk; a
frozen action-conditioned world model predicts the visual
consequences of that action chunk and supplies the next
observation. The discrepancy between the two predictions,
together with alignment to a terminal visual goal, forms the
feedback signal used to optimize the action head, avoiding
additional real-robot interaction or training of task-specific
reward models.
A. Problem Formulation
At rollout step k, the world-action model samples a latent
endpoint zk conditioned on the current observation ok and
instruction g. Denote its distribution as Πz
θ and the decoding
mapping as D, which outputs the generated visual prediction
VC
k and action chunk ak ∈RHa×da:
zk ∼Πz
θ(· | ok,g),
 VC
k ,ak

= D(zk),
(3)
The action chunk is converted into the control representation
required by the pretrained frozen action-conditioned world
model Wφ0, which predicts the action-conditioned visual
consequence.
VW
k = Wφ0(ok,Ta(ak)),
(4)
where Ta denotes the action conversion and temporal resam-
pling interface. The two visual predictions are complemen-
tary: VC
k is conditioned on the task goal, VW
k
on the proposed
actions.
We partition the world-action model parameters into the
frozen video-generation parameters θ 0
v
and the trainable
action-related parameters θa, with θ = (θ 0
v ,θa). Policy im-
provement does not require real-robot transitions or task-
success labels; the framework instead constructs a model-
mediated trajectory
X = {(ok,ak,VC
k ,VW
k )}N−1
k=0
and optimizes
θ ⋆
a = argmax
θa EX∼pθa(X|o0,g;θ0v ,φ0)
"
N−1
∑
k=0
γkrk
#
,
(5)
with θ 0
v and φ 0 fixed throughout training. The reward rk and
transition to ok+1 are defined in (10) and (6).
B. Method Overview
The core idea is to use predicted action consequences
as feedback, encouraging actions whose predicted outcomes
align with the model’s goal-conditioned visual predictions.
At each chunk, the WAM generates a goal-conditioned
visual prediction and action sequence, while a frozen action-
conditioned world model predicts their consequences and
provides the next observation. The feedback combines
trajectory-level consistency with terminal visual-goal align-
ment. We optimize only the action head using an FPO
surrogate with group-relative advantages, while keeping the
visual path and world model frozen. Algorithm 1 summarizes
the training procedure.
C. Closed-Loop Cross-Model Rollout
We instantiate the world action model Πθ with a native
Cosmos3 policy [5] and the action-conditioned world model
Wφ0 with a frozen Ctrl-World model [25].
For each policy step, Cosmos3 jointly generates the goal-
conditioned visual prediction VC
k and action chunk ak in (3).
Before passing to Ctrl-World, Ta restores the physical scale
of the actions, converts the policy representation into the
world-model control interface, and resamples the commands


to the world-model rate. Ctrl-World then generates the con-
sequence video VW
k
from the current observation and the
converted actions.
The rollout is closed by using the predicted consequence
to construct the observation for the next policy step:
ok+1 = Extobs
 VW
k

,
(6)
where Extobs extracts the latest multi-view observation after
the action chunk. The world model retains image and action
histories within each rollout and updates them after each
chunk; we omit these history inputs for brevity. Importantly,
VC
k serves only as the target for cross-model feedback and is
never fed back as the next observation. Repeating (3)–(6) for
N chunks yields a closed-loop trajectory in which subsequent
actions are conditioned on the predicted consequences of
earlier actions.
For group-relative optimization, we sample B groups,
each containing G trajectories that share the same reset
observation and instruction:
ob,i,0 = ob,0,
gb,i = gb,
b = 1,...,B,
i = 1,...,G,
(7)
Within each group, independent draws from p0 yield differ-
ent latent endpoints and hence different imagined futures and
action proposals under the same initial task condition.
Algorithm 1 Closed-loop post-training
Require: policy Πθa, frozen world model W, reset set Dreset,
goal image I⋆
g, group size G, horizon N, discount γ
1: θa,old ←θa; sample (o0,g) ∼Dreset
2: for i = 1,...,G do
3:
oi,0 ←o0
4:
for k = 0,...,N −1 do
5:
(VC
i,k,ai,k,zi,k) ←NativeUniPC(Πθa,old,oi,k,g)
6:
VW
i,k ←W(oi,k,Ta(ai,k))
7:
Compute ri,k
8:
Store zi,k, ci,k = (oi,k,g), and fixed probes Ωi,k
9:
oi,k+1 ←Extobs(VW
i,k )
10:
end for
11: end for
12: Compute Ri,k and bAi,k
13: for each minibatch of stored chunks do
14:
for each chunk (i,k) in the minibatch do
15:
Compute bLa
old and bLa
16:
bρi,k ←exp(bLa
old −bLa)
17:
end for
18:
Update θa once using the minibatch average
19: end for
D. Cross-Model Feedback and Temporal Credit
We construct feedback from trajectory consistency and
terminal-goal alignment. For trajectory i in group b at chunk
k, the trajectory feedback measures the discrepancy be-
tween the WAM-generated visual prediction and the action-
conditioned prediction. We select frames at Hv common
timestamps from both videos and compare corresponding
views at matching resolution. For vectorized frames F,F′,
we use pixel MSE, Dtraj(F,F′) = Dgoal(F,F′) = ∥F −F′∥2
2/P,
where P counts all compared pixel values across channels
and views, and pixel values are on the [0,255] scale. The
trajectory reward is
rtraj
b,i,k = −1
Hv
Hv
∑
t=1
Dtraj
 VC
b,i,k,t,VW
b,i,k,t

.
(8)
To encourage task completion, we additionally compare
VW
final, the final frame predicted by the world model, with a
predefined visual goal reference I⋆
g for each task g, prepro-
cessed identically to the predicted frames. Omitting group
and trajectory indices in (9)–(10), the goal reward is
rgoal = −Dgoal
 VW
final,I⋆
g

.
(9)
The reward used for policy optimization is
rk = λtrajrtraj
k
+λgoalrgoal
k
.
(10)
where the nonnegative weights λtraj and λgoal balance the two
terms, and the goal term equals (9) at the final chunk and is
zero otherwise. Higher feedback scores indicate smaller pixel
discrepancies: the trajectory term encourages agreement with
the WAM’s imagined motion, the goal term encourages
progress toward the desired outcome.
A trajectory contains N consecutive action chunks. To
assign an earlier chunk credit for the consequences predicted
at later rollout steps, we compute the discounted suffix return
Rb,i,k =
N−1
∑
j=k
γ j−krb,i,j.
(11)
Returns are normalized separately at each chunk position
across the G trajectories sharing the same reset state:
bAb,i,k = Rb,i,k −µb,k
sb,k +δ
,
(12)
where µb,k and sb,k are the mean and population standard
deviation of the G returns within group b at chunk k, and
δ > 0 ensures numerical stability.
E. Action-Head Policy Optimization
The group-relative advantages defined above provide the
feedback for updating the WAM’s action head. We use them
in a clipped FPO objective whose surrogate ratio is computed
from action-head CFM losses, connecting the cross-model
feedback to policy optimization without requiring gradients
through the reward computation or the action-conditioned
world model.
For member i of group b at chunk k, the WAM generates
a joint latent endpoint zb,i,k = [zv
b,i,k;za
b,i,k] using its native
UniPC sampler, which we evaluate with the FPO surrogate
introduced in the preliminaries [14]. This retains the native
rollout procedure without requiring a likelihood over the
numerical solver trajectory.
For each stored endpoint, we sample Q time–noise pairs
Ωb,i,k = {(τq,εq)}Q
q=1, where τq ∼U(0,1) and εq ∼N(0,I)


Before
After
   
   
   
   
    o 
          
    
          
      
            
    
            
Before   
                            
                          
    o 
            
    
             
      
            
    
            
 f er   
                            
                          
Fig. 3.
Imagination and execution success rates before (left) and after (right) RL. Each point is one task; the diagonal marks perfect agreement, so
distance below it is the imagination–consequence gap. The gap between imagination and execution success rates narrows after post-training. Far right: a
duck grasp that fails before RL and succeeds after.
are independent and shared between the behavior and current
policies. Following the noise-to-data convention, the per-
turbed input is
z(q)
b,i,k = zb,i,k +(1−τq)Mb,i,k ⊙
 εq −zb,i,k

,
(13)
The mask Mb,i,k selects future visual latents and valid action
coordinates, leaving conditioning and padding unchanged.
We compute the CFM loss only on valid action coordi-
nates:
bLa
θa,b,i,k = 1
Q
Q
∑
q=1
Pa
h
vθ0v ,θa

z(q)
b,i,k,τq | cb,i,k

−u(q)
b,i,k
i
2
2 ,
(14)
where u(q)
b,i,k = Mb,i,k ⊙(zb,i,k −εq) is the target velocity
of (13), Pa selects valid action coordinates, and cb,i,k =
(ob,i,k,gb). This loss defines the surrogate ratio for updating
the action head:
bρFPO
b,i,k (θa) = exp

bLa
θa,old,b,i,k −bLa
θa,b,i,k

,
(15)
where both losses use the same endpoint, condition, and
time–noise pairs.
We combine this ratio with the group-relative advantage
bAb,i,k and maximize the critic-free clipped objective:
JFPO(θa) = E
h
min

ρ bA, clip(ρ,1−εclip,1+εclip)bA
i
, (16)
where ρ and bA denote the ratio in (15) and the advantage in
(12), the expectation averages uniformly over the BGN col-
lected chunks, and εclip ∈(0,1) is the clipping threshold. The
sampled trajectories, probe pairs, advantages, and behavior-
policy losses remain fixed during optimization. Only the
action-head parameters θa are updated; the WAM’s visual-
generation parameters and the action-conditioned world
model stay frozen, preventing direct updates to the predictive
models during optimization.
V. EXPERIMENTS
We evaluate the proposed framework through four ques-
tions.
• Q1: How consistent are the visual predictions of a
world–action model with the action-conditioned conse-
quences predicted from its generated actions?
Laptop
Duck
Push T
Cup
Fig. 4.
Experimental tasks: closing a laptop, placing a specified colored
duck into a basket (four colors, selected from the instruction), pushing a
T-shaped block to a target pose, and nesting four cups into one stack. We
collect 40, 200, 150, and 100 demonstrations for the respective tasks; Cup
has the longest horizon.
• Q2: Can policy optimization guided by this model-derived
feedback improve real-world robot performance?
• Q3: How do trajectory-level and terminal-goal feedback
components affect policy optimization?
• Q4: How do model-derived feedback signals relate to
predicted task success?
To address these questions, we focus on four aspects: model
consistency, real-robot performance, feedback mechanisms,
and reward effectiveness.
A. Experimental Setup
1) Tasks: As shown in Fig. 4, we evaluate four real-world
manipulation tasks on a UR5 robot:
• Laptop closing: The robot rotates the open lid until
the laptop is fully shut without displacing the base (40
demonstrations).
• Duck placing: The robot grasps the colored duck specified
by the instruction from four candidates on the table and
places it into a basket. All four colors appear during
training (200 demonstrations, 50 per color).
• Push-T: The robot translates and reorients a T-shaped
block to match a target pose (150 demonstrations).
• Cup nesting: The robot stacks four cups into a single col-
umn, requiring four successive grasp-and-place motions
without disturbing the partial stack (100 demonstrations).
Laptop closing and cup nesting require accurate contact es-
tablishment and maintenance during execution, while Push-T
and duck placing require visual inference of object pose and
identity.


0.5k
5k
10k
15k
SFT steps
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
Success rate
18
45
43
50
10
13
6
9
Joint video
Action consequence
Fig. 5.
Model-space success during SFT. Both streams are scored by
a frozen classifier on the terminal frame. The imagined video increasingly
shows task completion (18 →50%) while the world model’s rollout of the
same actions does not (6–13%), leaving a 41-point gap at 15k steps.
2) Compared methods: We compare the full framework
against its SFT initialization and three external systems: Fast-
WAM [20], VLA-JEPA [24] and π0.5 [34]. Each retains its
official model, training procedure, observation and action
interface, and default execution horizon, while being adapted
and evaluated using the same demonstration data and task
protocol.
3) Training and checkpoint selection: All systems are
adapted from the same task-specific UR5 demonstration split,
divided into training and testing sets at a 4:1 ratio. For each
method, we select the checkpoint with the lowest validation
loss during adaptation.
4) Implementation details: We combine FPO with group-
relative advantages. Each rollout batch contains B = 8 groups
of G = 16 trajectories that share the same initial observation
and instruction and differ only through independent pol-
icy sampling noise. Each trajectory contains N = 5 action
chunks, and discounted suffix returns are normalized within
each group at each chunk position with γ = 0.95.
B. Model-Space Video–Consequence Gap During SFT
We first test whether task-completion predictions from
the WAM visual stream match consequences predicted from
generated actions. At four SFT checkpoints (500, 5k, 10k,
and 15k steps), we sample 100 paired rollouts from 20
initializations. Within each pair, the video stream recursively
conditions on its predictions while the frozen world model
predicts the consequences of the same action chunks from the
same initial observation, and a frozen instruction-conditioned
classifier scores the terminal predictions.
Fig. 5 shows the resulting model-space success scores.
As SFT proceeds, the WAM visual predictions increasingly
depict task completion, rising from 18% to 50%, while
the corresponding action-conditioned predictions remain at
6–13% throughout. The paired gap widens to 41 percentage
points at 15k steps. These results indicate an asymmetry be-
tween visual prediction and action generation: the model can
produce task-completion visual predictions before generating
action sequences whose predicted consequences achieve sim-
ilar outcomes. Because both scores use the same classifier
and initial states, this gap reflects inconsistency between two
model-generated predictions rather than differences in the
evaluation protocol, and it motivates the feedback defined in
Eq. (10).
C. Overall Real-Robot Performance
Table I reports real-robot success rates, averaged over four
tasks with equal weight. After RL, our model achieves the
highest average success rate among evaluated methods at
75.1%, improving over its SFT initialization (43.4%) by 31.7
percentage points and over the strongest baseline, π0.5, by
13.7 percentage points. The results show that policy opti-
mization with world-model feedback provides gains beyond
supervised imitation alone.
TABLE I
REAL-ROBOT TASK SUCCESS RATES (%).
Method
Laptop
Duck
Push-T
Cup
Avg.
Ours (SFT)
22.0%
95.0%
23.3%
33.3%
43.4%
Fast-WAM
16.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
4.0%
VLA-JEPA
15.0%
20.0%
0.0%
0.0%
8.8%
π0.5
56.7%
85.0%
33.3%
70.6%
61.4%
Ours (RL)
68.0%
100.0%
48.9%
83.3%
75.1%
The improvement is consistent across all four tasks: 22.0%
to 68.0% on laptop, 95.0% to 100.0% on duck, 23.3% to
48.9% on Push-T, and 33.3% to 83.3% on cup. Compared
with π0.5, our method achieves higher success rates on all
evaluated tasks, with gains of 11.3, 15.0, 15.6, and 12.7
percentage points, respectively. Under the same adaptation
protocol, VLA-JEPA and Fast-WAM achieve lower suc-
cess rates than our SFT initialization. Both were developed
with substantially larger adaptation budgets than the 40–200
demonstrations per task available here, so we read these
numbers as evidence that the low-data regime is difficult
rather than as an inherent limitation of either method.
Table II shows that execution efficiency also improves
after RL. Mean completion time and mean control step count
decrease on all four tasks: by 10.2% and 9.9% on laptop,
10.7% and 14.7% on duck, 6.0% and 3.8% on Push-T, and
16.8% and 25.1% on the long-horizon cup task. The medians
follow the same trend except on duck, where they are essen-
tially unchanged, indicating that the mean reduction there
comes from fewer long, hesitant trials rather than a uniformly
faster policy. These statistics are computed over each policy’s
successful trials, so the two rows cover different trial sets;
the consistent direction across tasks nonetheless suggests
that improving consistency between generated actions and
predicted visual outcomes reduces corrective motion rather
than trading accuracy for speed.
D. Ablation Study of Reward
We evaluate the respective contributions of trajectory-level
and terminal-goal feedback through a feedback-component
ablation on the close-laptop task, keeping the SFT initial-
ization, Ctrl-World model, UniPC sampler, FPO objective,
and training budget constant and varying only the reward
composition. We compare three settings: Trajectory reward,
which uses only the trajectory-consistency term; Terminal re-
ward, which uses only the terminal-goal term; and Combined
reward, which integrates both.


1
3
5
7
9
11
13
15
RL update step
−4.8
−4.6
−4.4
−4.2
−4.0
Reward
Trajectory
1
3
5
7
9
11
13
15
RL update step
−7.2
−6.8
−6.4
−6.0
−5.6
Reward
Terminal-goal
1
3
5
7
9
11
13
15
RL update step
−13.0
−12.5
−12.0
−11.5
−11.0
Reward
Combined
1
3
5
7
9
11
13
15
RL update step
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Success rate
Success rate
Trajectory
Terminal-goal
Combined
Fig. 6.
Reward ablation on the close-laptop task, varying only the reward composition. Left three: Trajectory, Terminal-goal, and Combined rewards
over FPO updates, each rising under its own objective. Right: classifier-estimated model-space success, which improves early then diverges — model-space
success does not directly track real-robot performance.
TABLE II
REAL-ROBOT TASK EXECUTION EFFICIENCY.
Task
Method
n
Time (s) ↓
Control steps ↓
Mean
Median
Mean
Median
Laptop
SFT
11
46.1
40.8
123.6
113
RL
34
41.4
39.7
111.4
107
Duck
SFT
57
63.5
54.1
200.0
160
RL
60
56.7
54.2
170.7
160
Push-T
SFT
21
131.6
124.4
289.3
279
RL
44
123.7
121.9
278.3
272
Cup
SFT
10
206.0
196.7
667.6
632
RL
25
171.3
173.4
500.0
496
Statistics use each policy’s successful trials; n is the number of successes.
Time includes inference waiting. Control steps count executed actions.
As shown in the left three panels of Fig. 6, all three settings
improve steadily over FPO updates, each rising under its
own objective. Both feedback types therefore provide useful
optimization signals for FPO individually. On the right of
Fig. 6, all three settings improve sharply in the early updates,
peak around updates 9–11, and then decline. Because this
metric comes from a classifier applied to Ctrl-World’s pre-
dicted terminal states, it measures completion only within the
model space, and the late decline may indicate a mismatch
between the optimized policy and the frozen world model’s
prediction distribution rather than genuine degradation. We
accordingly use model-space success only to compare opti-
mization signals during training.
These results suggest that the two feedback components
play complementary roles: the trajectory feedback constrains
consistency during intermediate predicted evolution, whereas
the terminal feedback focuses on the final predicted goal
state. Combining feedback from both the process and the
endpoint yields a more comprehensive optimization signal.
E. Correlation Between Reward and Predicted Success
We analyze the relationship between the feedback signal
and task-prediction success. For each RL rollout, we pair
the feedback score with the success classification derived
from the final-state image predicted by Ctrl-World, so this
analysis reflects the association within the model space. As
shown in Fig. 7, this relationship varies across tasks. On
laptop and cup, reward distributions for successful rollouts
sit clearly above those for failed ones, whereas on duck and
Push-T the two overlap substantially. The combined feedback
therefore carries directional information consistent with pre-
-15
-10
Success
Failure
Reward
Laptop
Combined reward
-7
-6
-5
-4
-3
Success
Failure
Trajectory reward
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
Success
Failure
Terminal reward
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
Success
Failure
Reward
Duck
Combined reward
-50
-40
-30
Success
Failure
Push T
Combined reward
-60
-40
-20
Success
Failure
Cup
Combined reward
Fig. 7.
Reward distributions for successful (green) and failed (red)
rollouts. Laptop is shown for all three reward settings; other tasks use the
combined reward. Successes score higher throughout, but the margin is clear
on Laptop and Cup and largely overlapping on Duck and Push-T.
dicted success, though the association strength varies by task.
We further examine the relationship at the individual-rollout
level. As shown in Fig. 8, successful rollouts concentrate at
high predicted success probability and at the upper end of
the reward range, while failed rollouts fall at the opposite
corner, with similar separation in the training and evaluation
splits. The combined reward thus orders rollouts consistently
with predicted task success, supporting its use as a feedback
signal. Because both quantities derive from the same Ctrl-
World predictions, this correlation holds within the model
space.
Both components show consistent trends: trajectory feed-
back captures consistency between predicted action evolution
and target progression, while terminal feedback empha-
sizes final-state completion. Combining them supervises both
intermediate process and final outcome. Higher feedback
scores correspond to more successful model predictions
across reward distributions and individual rollouts; although
task-dependent, the feedback remains informative for guiding
the policy toward improved predicted outcomes.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
We propose a policy optimization method that converts
the discrepancy between a world-action model’s visual pre-
dictions and action-conditioned consequences into an opti-


0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
-20
-18
-16
-14
-12
-10
-8
-6
Success probability
Combined reward
Success
Failure
Training
Success–Failure Boundary
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
-50
-40
-30
-20
Success probability
Combined reward
Success
Failure
Evaluation
Success–Failure Boundary
Fig. 8.
Combined reward versus predicted success probability on
the training (left) and evaluation (right) sets; each point is one rollout.
Successes concentrate at high probability and higher reward, failures at the
opposite corner, with similar separation in both splits. Diagonals are visual
guides only; both axes come from Ctrl-World predictions, so the correlation
is within model space.
mization signal for its actions. A frozen pretrained action-
conditioned world model predicts the action-conditioned
visual consequences of generated actions, and the discrep-
ancy between the WAM visual prediction and the predicted
consequence, together with alignment to a terminal visual
goal, forms a dense rollout-level feedback signal for policy
optimization without directly updating the predictive mod-
els. Adapting Flow Policy Optimization to the action head
allows this feedback signal to update the policy under the
pretrained model’s native UniPC sampler, without online
robot interaction or additional task-specific reward-model
training. On four real-world UR5 tasks, post-training on a 41-
point visual prediction–consequence gap raises the average
success rate from 43.4% to 75.1%, and ablations confirm
the complementary roles of trajectory-level and terminal-
goal feedback. Future work will explore world models that
explicitly incorporate physical constraints to better assess
the feasibility of visual plans and narrow the gap between
visual planning and real-world execution, while extending
the approach to longer-horizon manipulation.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y. Chebotar, X. Chen, K. Choro-
manski, T. Ding, D. Driess, A. Dubey, C. Finn et al., “Rt-2: Vision-
language-action models transfer web knowledge to robotic control,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15818, 2023.
[2] M. J. Kim, K. Pertsch, S. Karamcheti, T. Xiao, A. Balakrishna, S. Nair,
R. Rafailov, E. Foster, G. Lam, P. Sanketi et al., “Openvla: An open-
source vision-language-action model,” 2024.
[3] K. Black, N. Brown, D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn, N. Fusai,
L. Groom, K. Hausman, B. Ichter et al., “pi 0: A vision-language-
action flow model for general robot control,” 2024.
[4] Y. Du, S. Yang, B. Dai, H. Dai, O. Nachum, J. Tenenbaum, D. Schu-
urmans, and P. Abbeel, “Learning universal policies via text-guided
video generation,” vol. 36, 2023, pp. 9156–9172.
[5] N. Agarwal, A. Ali, J. Allen, M. Antolini, A. Aubame, A. Azzolini,
J. Bai, M. Bala, Y. Balaji, J. Bapst et al., “Cosmos 3: Omnimodal
world models for physical ai,” 2026.
[6] Z. Shao, P. Wang, Q. Zhu, R. Xu, J. Song, X. Bi, H. Zhang, M. Zhang,
Y. Li, Y. Wu et al., “Deepseekmath: Pushing the limits of mathematical
reasoning in open language models,” 2024.
[7] I. Xu, S. Jiang, J. Marangola, N. Dashora, R. Li, T. Liu, Z. He,
Y. Zhi, A. Pentland, P. Agrawal et al., “Learning more from less:
Reinforcement learning from hindsight,” 2026.
[8] Y. Guo, J. Gao, Z. Wu, C. Shi, and J. Chen, “Reinforcement learning
with demonstrations from mismatched task under sparse reward,” in
Conference on Robot Learning.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 1146–1156.
[9] Y. Wang, Z. Sun, J. Zhang, Z. Xian, E. Biyik, D. Held, and Z. Erickson,
“Rl-vlm-f: Reinforcement learning from vision language foundation
model feedback,” 2024.
[10] F. Luo, “Vision-language models for robot success detection,” in
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 38,
no. 21, 2024, pp. 23 750–23 752.
[11] R. Tian, Y. Wu, C. Xu, M. Tomizuka, J. Malik, and A. Bajcsy,
“Maximizing alignment with minimal feedback: Efficiently learning
rewards for visuomotor robot policy alignment,” 2024.
[12] K. Chen, Z. Liu, T. Zhang, Z. Guo, S. Xu, H. Lin, H. Zang, Q. Zhang,
Z. Yu, G. Fan et al., “πrl: Online rl fine-tuning for flow-based vision-
language-action models,” 2025.
[13] J. Liu, G. Liu, J. Liang, Y. Li, J. Liu, X. Wang, P. Wan, D. Zhang, and
W. Ouyang, “Flow-grpo: Training flow matching models via online rl,”
vol. 38, 2026, pp. 40 783–40 818.
[14] D. McAllister, S. Ge, B. Yi, C. M. Kim, E. Weber, H. Choi, H. Feng,
and A. Kanazawa, “Flow matching policy gradients,” pp. 36 352–
36 372, 2026.
[15] S. L. Li, E. Kim, X. Bai, T. Zhao, T. Pang, M. Simchowitz, and
V. Sitzmann, “Turning video models into generalist robot policies,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.27817, 2026.
[16] S. Zhou, Y. Du, J. Chen, Y. Li, D.-Y. Yeung, and C. Gan, “Robo-
dreamer: Learning compositional world models for robot imagination,”
2024.
[17] H. Wu, Y. Jing, C. Cheang, G. Chen, J. Xu, X. Li, M. Liu, H. Li,
and T. Kong, “Unleashing large-scale video generative pre-training for
visual robot manipulation,” in International Conference on Learning
Representations, vol. 2024, 2024, pp. 10 641–10 662.
[18] M. J. Kim, Y. Gao, T.-Y. Lin, Y.-C. Lin, Y. Ge, G. Lam, P. Liang,
S. Song, M.-Y. Liu, C. Finn et al., “Cosmos policy: Fine-tuning video
models for visuomotor control and planning,” 2026.
[19] S. Ye, Y. Ge, K. Zheng, S. Gao, S. Yu, G. Kurian, S. Indupuru,
Y. L. Tan, C. Zhu, J. Xiang et al., “World action models are zero-
shot policies,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.15922, 2026.
[20] T. Yuan, Z. Dong, Y. Liu, and H. Zhao, “Fast-wam: Do world action
models need test-time future imagination?” 2026.
[21] M. Assran, A. Bardes, D. Fan, Q. Garrido, R. Howes, M. Muckley,
A. Rizvi, C. Roberts, K. Sinha, A. Zholus et al., “V-jepa 2: Self-
supervised video models enable understanding, prediction and plan-
ning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.09985, 2025.
[22] J. Chen, K. Wang, K. Chen, S. Chen, F. Gao, W. Tang, Z. Li, W. Liu,
Z. Yao, B. Li et al., “Lawam: Latent world action models for efficient
dynamics-aware robot policies,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.15768,
2026.
[23] G. Zhou, H. Pan, Y. LeCun, and L. Pinto, “Dino-wm: World models
on pre-trained visual features enable zero-shot planning,” 2024.
[24] J. Sun, W. Zhang, Z. Qi, S. Ren, Z. Liu, H. Zhu, G. Sun, X. Jin,
and Z. Chen, “Vla-jepa: Enhancing vision-language-action model with
latent world model,” 2026.
[25] Y. Guo, L. Shi, J. Chen, and C. Finn, “Ctrl-world: A controllable
generative world model for robot manipulation,” in International
Conference on Learning Representations, vol. 2026, 2026, pp. 6121–
6138.
[26] J. Wu, S. Yin, N. Feng, X. He, D. Li, J. Hao, and M. Long, “ivideogpt:
Interactive videogpts are scalable world models,” vol. 37, 2024, pp.
68 082–68 119.
[27] S. Yang, Y. Du, K. Ghasemipour, J. Tompson, L. Kaelbling, D. Schu-
urmans, and P. Abbeel, “Learning interactive real-world simulators,”
2023.
[28] F. Zhu, H. Wu, S. Guo, Y. Liu, C. Cheang, and T. Kong, “Irasim: A
fine-grained world model for robot manipulation,” in 2025 IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV).
IEEE, 2025,
pp. 9834–9844.
[29] J. Bruce, M. D. Dennis, A. Edwards, J. Parker-Holder, Y. Shi,
E. Hughes, M. Lai, A. Mavalankar, R. Steigerwald, C. Apps et al.,
“Genie: Generative interactive environments,” in Forty-first interna-
tional conference on machine learning, 2024.
[30] S. Gao, S. Zhou, Y. Du, J. Zhang, and C. Gan, “Adaworld: Learning
adaptable world models with latent actions,” 2025.
[31] W. Menapace, S. Lathuiliere, A. Siarohin, C. Theobalt, S. Tulyakov,
V. Golyanik, and E. Ricci, “Playable environments: Video manipula-
tion in space and time,” in 2022 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). IEEE, 2022, pp. 3574–3583.
[32] K. Black, M. Janner, Y. Du, I. Kostrikov, and S. Levine, “Training


diffusion models with reinforcement learning,” in International Con-
ference on Learning Representations, vol. 2024, 2024, pp. 4965–4987.
[33] Z. Qian, X. Chi, Y. Qi, H. Li, Z. Y. Chen, and S. Zhang, “Wam-
rl: World-action model reinforcement learning with reconstruction
rewards and online video sft,” 2026.
[34] P. Intelligence, K. Black, N. Brown, J. Darpinian, K. Dhabalia,
D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn, N. Fusai et al., “π0.5:
A Vision-Language-Action Model with Open-World Generalization,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.
