DUET-DINO: Simultaneous Cross-View World Modeling for Latent
Planning in Robot Manipulation
Nisarga Nilavadi1, Ralf R¨omer2, Moritz Reuss3,4, Michael Krawez1, Tobias J¨ulg1,
Angela P. Schoellig2,5, Rudolf Lioutikov3,5, Wolfram Burgard1,5
Abstract— Action-conditioned latent world models predict fu-
ture visual representations, enabling zero-shot goal-conditioned
robot planning and control. However, their predictions for fine-
grained spatial and rotational actions are unreliable for full 7-
DoF end-effector control. To address this gap, we introduce
DUET-DINO, a simultaneous cross-view latent world model
that jointly learns action-conditioned predictions from static
side- and wrist-camera observations through cross-view condi-
tioning. By exploiting complementary global scene and gripper-
centric information, DUET-DINO enables latent planning over
the full 7-DoF action space. Across spatially diverse reach,
orientation-intensive angled-reach, and multi-goal grasp-and-
lift tasks, DUET-DINO consistently outperforms single-view
and independent dual-view baselines, achieving 92% success on
reach, 72.5% on angled-reach, and 60.0% on lift tasks. DUET-
DINO is trained from scratch on DROID and RoboArena
datasets and generalizes robustly under visual distribution
shifts. We further show that while V-JEPA 2 wrist-view pre-
dictions underestimate visual dynamics induced by fine-grained
actions, DINOv3 predictions better capture action-conditioned
scene changes, leading to stronger downstream planning. The
code and model checkpoints will be open-sourced. Project page:
https://utn-air.github.io/DUET-DINO
I. INTRODUCTION
World models have emerged as a promising direction to
address generalization in robotics by learning representations
of the world and its dynamics from large-scale web data [1]–
[3]. Through self-supervised training on billions of examples,
world models can improve generalization across diverse
environments and implicitly capture aspects of real-world
dynamics, such as how objects move and interact. In robot
manipulation, world models can predict future states as latent
representations [2], [4], pixel-level observations [1], [5], [6],
or rewards [6], thereby providing information about the
consequences of actions. These predictions can be leveraged
in various ways, such as for planning [2], [7], policy train-
ing [8], [9], or safety verification [10], [11]. Latent world
models [2], [4], [12] are particularly attractive for closed-loop
planning and control: they produce task-relevant features
without modeling photorealistic details, enabling much faster
rollouts than pixel-space generators.
Despite these compelling properties, applying latent world
models to real-world manipulation remains challenging.
1Artificial Intelligence and Robotics Lab, University of Technology
Nuremberg (UTN), Germany.
2Learning Systems and Robotics Lab, Technical University of Munich
(TUM), Germany.
3Intuitive Robots Lab, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Germany.
4NVIDIA.
5Robotics Institute Germany.
Fig. 1.
Comparison of goal-conditioned 7-DoF action planning toward the
target object (banana) between our proposed DUET-DINO world model and
V-JEPA 2-AC. DUET-DINO progressively moves the end-effector toward
the goal, while V-JEPA 2-AC fails to approach the target.
While existing action-conditioned predictors [2], [4] can be
conditioned on the full 7-DoF end-effector action space, their
rollouts primarily capture coarse translational motion over
short horizons. Accordingly, prior deployment setups have
focused on translation-only action planning from predicted
rollouts for relatively simple pick-and-place downstream
tasks. In contrast, full 7-DoF action planning requires re-
liable prediction of fine-grained translational, rotational, and
gripper-state changes, which are critical for precise manipu-
lation tasks such as spatially diverse reaching, angled grasp-
ing, orientation-intensive pick-and-place, and insertion [7].
Consequently, tasks that require planning over the full end-
effector action space remain out of reach for current static
single-view latent world models.
To address this gap, we introduce a tightly modeled dual-
view approach, Simultaneous Cross-View World Modeling
for Latent Planning in Robot Manipulation (DUET-
DINO), for planning full 7-DoF end-effector motions.
DUET-DINO goes beyond prior latent world models [2],
[4] by jointly modeling scene changes from a side-view
camera that captures global workspace context and a wrist-
mounted camera that observes gripper-centric geometry. The
two streams are conditioned on each other in the latent
space via cross-attention, enabling each view predictor to
exploit complementary cues from the other while remaining
specialized to its own camera. At deployment, DUET-DINO
plans over full 7-DoF action sequences by jointly minimizing
the dual-view goal cost across both latent streams. On hard-
ware and simulated benchmarks including spatially diverse,
orientation-intensive, and multi-goal angled-lift tasks, DUET-
DINO consistently outperforms static single-view and naive
dual-view baselines.
arXiv:2609.10506v1  [cs.RO]  9 Sep 2026


In summary, our main contributions are the following:
1) We propose DUET-DINO, a latent world model that
jointly trains side- and wrist-view action-conditioned
predictors on cross-view-conditioned observation la-
tents, enabling each view-specific predictor to leverage
complementary information for improved downstream
planning.
2) We extend latent world-model planning to the full
7-DoF end-effector space by jointly optimizing over
predicted side and wrist-view latent rollouts using a
normalized dual-view goal cost.
3) We show the effect of pretrained latent representa-
tions on action-conditioned predictions, finding that
V-JEPA 2 underestimates wrist-view visual changes,
while DINOv3 better captures fine-grained motion.
4) We introduce spatially diverse, orientation-intensive,
and multi-goal manipulation tasks in the RoboLab
simulator [13] that expose the 7-DoF prediction bot-
tlenecks of latent world models.
5) We conduct extensive evaluations across simulation
and hardware on spatial reach, orientation-intensive
angled reach, and sequential angled-grasp and lift
tasks, including diverse backgrounds, distractors, and
perturbations. DUET-DINO achieves 92% success on
reach, 72.5% on angled-reach, and 60% on lift tasks,
consistently outperforming single-view and indepen-
dent dual-view baselines.
II. RELATED WORK
A. World Models in Robotics
Generative video world models. Foundation-scale video
generators such as Cosmos [1] and Wan [14] use diffusion-
and flow-based models to synthesize photorealistic video,
and a growing number of works adapt this capability to robot
manipulation. DreamGen [15] synthesizes neural trajectories
for policy training, recovering latent pseudo-actions to facil-
itate generalization. WorldGym [16] uses an autoregressive
video generator as a proxy environment for scoring policies
via Monte Carlo rollouts, while Ctrl-World [5] combines
pose-conditioned memory with multi-view video diffusion to
rank policies and produce imagined rollouts for supervised
fine-tuning. DiWA [8] pushes this further to fully offline
reinforcement learning for adapting diffusion policies inside
a learned world model. While generative world models excel
at visual fidelity, reconstructing every pixel is computation-
ally expensive and prone to hallucinations of physically
implausible scenes [17].
Latent world models. A complementary line of work
avoids pixel reconstruction by predicting representations in
a learned latent space. Joint-Embedding Predictive Archi-
tectures (JEPAs), as introduced for images by I-JEPA [18]
and extended to video by V-JEPA [19], leverage masked
feature-prediction objectives to produce strong, transferable
representations without any reconstruction or hand-crafted
augmentation. V-JEPA 2 [2] scales this recipe further and
adds an action-conditioned predictor (V-JEPA 2-AC) using
under 62 hours of robot interaction. V-JEPA 2.1 [4] intro-
duces a dense predictive loss and deep self-supervision to
better capture fine-grained features. DINO-WM [12] demon-
strates that patch features from a frozen DINOv2 encoder can
support action-conditioned latent prediction and zero-shot
planning, and DINOv3 [20] pushes dense self-supervised
features to a larger scale. A key limitation of existing latent
world models is that they largely rely on a single external
camera and struggle with fine-grained 7-DoF control, an
open challenge that we explicitly target in this work.
B. Visual Planning with World Models
Planning in pixel vs. latent space. One family of methods
plans directly in pixel space by generating future videos
and extracting actions from them. UniPi [21] casts decision
making as text-conditioned video generation followed by
an inverse-dynamics model; SuSIE [22] uses a pretrained
image-editing diffusion model to propose subgoal images
for a low-level goal-conditioned policy; and CLOVER [23]
closes the loop by combining a text-conditioned video dif-
fusion model with a measurable error space and a feedback-
driven controller. These methods directly couple planning
quality to the fidelity of generated pixels. An alternative is
to plan in the latent space of a latent world model: V-JEPA
2-AC [2] and DINO-WM [12] formulate manipulation as
latent-feature matching to a goal embedding and optimize
action sequences directly against this latent cost. Wang et
al. [24] show that explicitly regularizing latent trajectories to
be locally straight improves the geometry of the latent space
and makes Euclidean distances a better proxy for cost.
Action proposals and optimization. A common choice
is to sample actions from a Gaussian proposal and iteratively
refine them using the cross-entropy method (CEM) [2], [12],
[25]–[27], which is derivative-free and well-suited to highly
non-convex objectives. Other works learn structured proposal
distributions [28] or rely on a vision-language model to
propose camera trajectories for spatial reasoning [29]. Opti-
mization can also blend sampling and gradients: [26] inter-
leave CEM with gradient steps to escape local optima, and
[27] shows that simple MPPI-style updates already enable
dexterous in-hand manipulation when paired with sufficiently
accurate dynamics. Recent works plan from a single external
camera and primarily address translation-dominated tasks.
Rotational and gripper actions remain challenging because
their effects are degraded in latent predictions [2], [7]. In
addition, goal cost is poorly informed by a single global
view. DUET-DINO addresses this bottleneck by conditioning
the global side- and gripper-centric wrist observation views
on each other in latent space, and performing CEM planning
with a goal cost that aggregates both views, enabling reliable
planning over the full 7-DoF action space.
III. METHODOLOGY
A. Problem Formulation
We
approach
tabletop
manipulation
using
synchro-
nized camera streams from a static side camera and


Fig. 2.
Architecture and training of DUET-DINO. The pretrained encoder maps side- and wrist-view observations into latent space. Cross-attention blocks
condition each view on complementary information from the other view in the latent space. The view-specific predictor heads then predict future latents
conditioned on the action and end-effector state. The dual-view prediction loss Lpred(ϕ, ψ) combines the teacher-forcing loss computed over all one-step
predictions in the clip with an autoregressive loss over the K-step rollout predictions.
a
dynamic
wrist-mounted
camera.
Given
an
observa-
tion
ot = (oside
t
, owrist
t
)
consisting
of
two
camera
im-
ages oside
t
, owrist
t
∈RH×W ×C, as well as the full end-effector
action at ∈R7 at timestep t, we aim to predict future latent
representations ˆzside
t+T , ˆzwrist
t+T induced by the executed actions
over horizon T. The predicted latents should capture visual
features from both camera views, enabling zero-shot goal-
conditioned planning for manipulation.
B. DUET-DINO: Simultaneous Cross-View World Modeling
The proposed world model consists of three components.
First, a pretrained visual encoder maps side- and wrist-view
images to latent representations. Next, cross-attention blocks
allow each view-specific latent to query the complementary-
view latents. Finally, using the updated latent representations,
separate predictor heads predict future latents for their re-
spective views, conditioned on the same robot action. We
keep the visual encoder frozen and train the cross-attention
blocks and predictor heads jointly from scratch on large-scale
robotic manipulation datasets. An overview of DUET-DINO
is shown in Fig. 2.
The side- and wrist-view observations oside
t
and owrist
t
are
independently encoded using the frozen DINOv3 encoder
Eθ which was pretrained on large-scale visual data, yielding
patch-wise latent representations
zv
t = Eθ(ov
t ) ∈RP ×D
v ∈{side, wrist}.
(1)
where P is the number of image patches, and D is the
encoder’s latent dimension per patch. We then feed these
latents through learnable cross-attention blocks, Cϕside and
Cϕwrist, where the latents of each view query the latents of
the other view. Within each cross-attention block, the target-
view latents serve as queries, while the other-view latents
serve as keys and values
˜zside
t
= Cϕside
 Q = zside
t
, K = zwrist
t
, V = zwrist
t

,
˜zwrist
t
= Cϕwrist
 Q = zwrist
t
, K = zside
t
, V = zside
t

.
(2)
The resulting cross-view-conditioned latents, ˜zside
t
and ˜zwrist
t
,
are passed to their respective state- and action-conditioned
predictor heads, Pψside and Pψwrist, for which we adopt the
architecture introduced by [2]. The predictor heads remain
view-specific, with their inputs having already been updated
through cross-view latent conditioning. This allows each
predictor to preserve its own view-specific dynamics while
using complementary information from the other view to
predict the next latent representation as
ˆzv
t+1 = Pψv (˜zv
t , at, st)
v ∈{side, wrist}.
(3)
Training: We train the cross-attention blocks and pre-
dictor heads of DUET-DINO from scratch on a large-
scale dataset D = {(oi
t:t+T , ai
t:t+T −1)}N
i=1 containing clips
of length T of observation-action pairs. For both camera
views v ∈{side, wrist}, we combine two loss functions for
training: a teacher-forcing (one-step prediction) loss Lv
TF and
an autoregressive rollout loss Lv
AR. We compute the latter
over a rollout horizon of K = 2, starting from the first frame
of the clip [2]. The overall dual-view prediction loss for joint
training of the cross-attention blocks and the view-specific
predictor heads is given by
Lpred(ϕ, ψ) = E(ot:t+T ,at:t+T −1)∼D
X
v∈{side,wrist}
"
1
T −1
T
X
t=2
∥ˆzv
t −zv
t ∥1
|
{z
}
Lv
TF
+ 1
K
K+1
X
k=2
ˆzv
k,AR −zv
k

1
|
{z
}
Lv
AR
#
.
(4)
C. Visual Planning
Once trained, we leverage DUET-DINO for zero-shot
planning of full end-effector motions. Our objective is to
generate a sequence of actions driving the robot to a goal
observation og = (oside
g
, owrist
g
). We formulate this problem
in the dual learned latent space of DUET-DINO, with the
goal embeddings given by zside
g
= Eθ(oside
g
), zwrist
g
=
Eθ(owrist
g
). Denoting zt = (zside
t
, zwrist
t
) and considering a


DUET-DINO Latent 
Rollouts
Side-View (𝑶𝒕
𝒔𝒊𝒅𝒆)
Wrist-View (𝑶𝒕
𝒘𝒓𝒊𝒔𝒕)
Sample 7-DoF Actions
Fine-Grained Action (at ) 
Goal Images
DINOv3 Encoder
{at }N
Rotation
Translation
A
T
T
N
A
T
T
N
Latent Planning
𝐽𝑧g, ƶ𝑧𝑇
Fig. 3.
Overview of the proposed simultaneous cross-view world modeling method, showing predicted dual-view latent rollouts, CEM action planning
using predicted and goal latents, and the normalized dual-view planning cost J(zg, ˆzT ).
fixed receding horizon of length H, we aim to iteratively
solve the optimal control problem
min
a0:H−1 J(zg, ˆzH)
s.t.
ˆzτ+1 = DUET-DINO(ˆzτ, aτ), τ = 0, . . . , H −1,
ˆz0 = zt,
(5)
where J(zg, ˆzH) measures the distance between the predicted
and goal latents. We solve the optimal control problem (5)
using CEM [2], [7]. At each CEM iteration, we sample N
action sequences a1:N
t:t+H−1 ∼N(µ, Σ) from a Gaussian
proposal distribution with mean µ and variance Σ and
roll out the actions inside DUET-DINO to obtain imagined
latent trajectories τ 1:N = (st, zt, at, ˆz1:N
t+1, a1:N
t+1, . . . , ˆz1:N
t+H).
Then, we can assess the quality of each action sequence by
computing the corresponding deviations from the goal latents
as
ℓside
i
= ∥ˆzside,i
t+H −zside
g
∥1, ℓwrist
i
= ∥ˆzwrist,i
t+H
−zwrist
g
∥1. (6)
The overall dual-view planning cost is obtained by summing
the two per-view costs and normalizing by the dual-view cost
of a zero-action rollout over the same prediction horizon, i.e.,
Ji(zg, ˆzt+H) =
ℓside
i
+ ℓwrist
i
(ℓside + ℓwrist)0
J = {Ji}N
i=1.
(7)
We adopt a weighted top-k CEM update, where the selected
candidates are weighted using a softmax over their negative
costs, assigning larger weights to lower-cost action sequences
when updating the proposal distribution.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
This section describes the dataset processing, world-model
training procedure, experimental setup, evaluation protocol,
and results for DUET-DINO and the baseline methods.
A. Implementation and Training Details
We train and evaluate our world-model predictors on two
large-scale robot manipulation datasets: DROID [30] and
RoboArena [31]. After filtering the data, we obtain 62,877
DROID and 5,856 RoboArena diverse tabletop manipula-
tion trajectories. DROID comprises 86 diverse manipulation
tasks across 564 scenes and 52 buildings at 13 institutions,
covering a broad range of everyday objects, tasks, and envi-
ronments. Unlike prior work that trains only on DROID [2],
[4], we include data from RoboArena, collected by rolling
out different policies, to expose the model to a broader distri-
bution of behaviors, scenes, and failure modes than DROID
alone. Each batch samples 8-frame video clips with syn-
chronized side- and wrist-view observations at 4 FPS from
1280×720 images and resizes them to 256×256 for V-JEPA
2 encoders and 224×224 for DINOv3 encoders. At each
time step, the predictor is conditioned on a 7D end-effector
action at = st+1 −st = [∆x, ∆y, ∆z, ∆r, ∆p, ∆y, ∆g],
where ∆x, ∆y, ∆z denote Cartesian translation, ∆r, ∆p, ∆y
denote changes in end-effector roll, pitch, and yaw, and ∆g
is the change in gripper state.
We train baseline world-model predictors that vary in
visual encoder, camera view, and architecture. Specifically,
we consider independently trained single-view predictors for
the side and wrist cameras, alongside our proposed DUET
dual-view predictor. Each predictor architecture is evalu-
ated with two frozen pretrained visual encoder families: V-
JEPA 2 [2], using a ViT-G/16 backbone with 1B parameters,
and DINOv3 [20], using a ViT-H+/16 backbone with 840M
parameters. We optimize all world-model variants using
AdamW for 120k steps with a batch size of 256 with a
learning rate of 4.25×10−4 and a weight decay of 0.04. The
learning rate is warmed up from 7.5 × 10−5 over the first
4.5k steps and annealed to zero over the final 30k steps. The
total computational cost of DUET-DINO over 120k training
steps across four GPUs is 5 × 1020 FLOPs. The combined
training cost of all baseline and ablation models, excluding
DUET-DINO, is 2.8 × 1021 FLOPs.


B. Experimental Setup
We evaluate latent-world-model planning on manipulation
tasks that require full 7-DoF end-effector control. These tasks
include reach, angled reach, angled grasp and angled lift-to-
home. We organize the baseline and proposed world models
into three predictor categories:
1) Single-view: These models predict latent representa-
tions for either the side view or the wrist view using
a single view-specific predictor.
2) Independent dual-view: This baseline combines sep-
arately trained side- and wrist-view predictors, without
cross-attention or joint optimization between the two.
3) DUET dual-view: Our proposed model jointly trains
two view-specific predictor heads together with cross-
view attention blocks.
In addition, we evaluate all tasks using the official V-JEPA 2-
AC∗checkpoint [2], which was trained exclusively on the
left side-view DROID data for 94.5k optimization steps.
Fig. 3 shows an overview of the prediction and planning
pipeline. Goal observations from the corresponding camera
views specify each task. For single-view predictors, the goal
is provided from either the static side camera or the wrist
camera, whereas dual-view predictors use paired side- and
wrist-view goal observations. Single-view predictors plan
using the corresponding normalized view-specific cost, while
dual-view predictors use the combined planning cost, as
described in Sec. III-C. Unlike prior work [2], [4], which
uses 3-DoF end-effector actions with gripper control, our
planner samples candidate action sequences over the full 7-
DoF end-effector action space. For all tasks in simulation,
planning consistently uses 800 action samples, weighted 50
top-k candidates, and 2 CEM iterations. For each evaluation
run, we use a run-specific CEM seed shared across all model
variants, while different runs use different seeds.
The proposed tasks are evaluated in the RoboLab sim-
ulator [13], which provides visually realistic and diverse
backgrounds, object assets, configurable camera views, and
the DROID robot setup, making it well-suited for rigorous
evaluation of latent planning for manipulation. The DROID
setup consists of a Franka arm equipped with a Robotiq 2F-
85 gripper, a wrist-mounted camera, and a static side-view
camera. Note that the right side-view camera is used con-
sistently for both training and evaluation. The end-effector
actions produced by the planner are transformed into joint
commands using inverse kinematics.
C. Reach Task
The
experimental
setup
for
the
reach
task
con-
sists
of
ten
semantically
distinct
target
objects
dis-
tributed
across
the
breakfast table
scene
with
a HomeOfficeBackground, as shown in Fig. 4. We
define a reach run to be successful if the end-effector
position pe is within a distance of ϵp to the goal position pg,
in 100 steps, i.e., if ∥pe −pg∥2 ≤ϵp. We define ϵp = 5 cm
for all items. The final position error (FPE) is the Euclidean
distance computed at the final planning step, regardless
Fig. 4.
Static right side-camera view showing the robot in its home pose
and the target objects used in the reach tasks: (1) Coffee Pot, (2) Coffee
Can, (3) Banana, (4) Juice Carton, (5) Yogurt Cup, (6) Apple, (7) Orange,
(8) Bagel, (9) White Pitcher, and (10) Ceramic Mug.
TABLE I
AGGREGATE REACH SUCCESS RATE (SR) AND FINAL POSITION ERROR
(FPE) OVER 100 EVALUATION RUNS PER MODEL ACROSS TEN TASKS.
Side
Wrist
Predictor
SR (%) ↑
FPE (cm) ↓
V-JEPA 2 Encoder
✓
–
V-JEPA 2-AC∗
55%
18.6±23.2
✓
–
Single-view
20%
34.4±17.9
–
✓
Single-view
37%
32.5±26.6
✓
✓
Independent
37%
32.5±24.4
✓
✓
DUET-VJEPA
41%
39.0±38.6
DINOv3 Encoder
✓
–
Single-view
18%
28.0±15.6
–
✓
Single-view
79%
13.1±20.3
✓
✓
Independent
78%
9.8±13.8
✓
✓
DUET-DINO
92%
5.4±7.4
of task success, and therefore includes residual error after
successful task completion.
Table I shows the reach performance of single-view and
dual-view predictors in latent planning. V-JEPA 2-AC∗with
our visual planning achieves a higher success rate than all
trained V-JEPA 2 baselines, suggesting that longer training
on more diverse data degraded spatial planning. The trained
side-view predictors achieve low success rates and high
FPE, suggesting limited ability to spatially plan end-effector
actions across different regions of the table. Successful runs
were primarily observed for target objects located near the
robot’s home pose, such as objects (10) and (5). The V-
JEPA 2 wrist-view predictor shows a moderate improvement
over its side-view. In contrast, the DINOv3 wrist-view pre-
dictor shows a larger performance gain. Independent dual-
view models provide negligible gains over the corresponding
wrist-view predictors, highlighting the difficulty of naively
combining views. The DUET-VJEPA predictor improves
over its corresponding independent dual-view model in terms
of success rate. Despite this improvement, its FPE remains
high because, in failed reach (3)Banana runs, the planned
end-effector actions drive the robot substantially away from
the target object, resulting in a large FPE. Our DUET-DINO
predictor achieves the strongest overall spatial planning per-
formance, reaching a success rate of 92%. Notably, DUET-
DINO also succeeds on the challenging reach (1)Coffee
Pot runs near the table corner, which requires coordinated


TABLE II
AGGREGATE ANGLED-REACH SUCCESS RATE (SR), FINAL POSITION
ERROR (FPE), AND FINAL ANGULAR ERROR (FAE) OVER 40
EVALUATION RUNS PER MODEL ACROSS FOUR TASKS.
Side
Wrist
Predictor
SR (%) ↑
FPE (cm) ↓
FAE (◦) ↓
V-JEPA 2 Encoder
✓
–
V-JEPA 2-AC∗
2.5%
3.6±1.5
72.6±32.2
✓
–
Single-view
25.0%
3.6±1.6
51.9±31.9
–
✓
Single-view
25.0%
36.7±22.5
67.9±37.7
✓
✓
Independent
25.0%
18.4±15.7
66.7±36.8
✓
✓
DUET-VJEPA
25.0%
15.7±20.6
69.7±41.7
DINOv3 Encoder
✓
–
Single-view
25.0%
5.3±1.5
67.1±40.2
–
✓
Single-view
62.5%
8.3±7.2
47.4±57.5
✓
✓
Independent
55.0%
3.2±2.5
48.8±54.4
✓
✓
DUET-DINO
72.5%
1.9±1.2
22.7±32.2
translational and rotational motion under kinematic con-
straints, while the target is outside the wrist camera’s field of
view at the robot’s home pose. [2] reports 16 s per planning
step for a single-view predictor using more CEM iterations,
while DUET-DINO requires 15–17 s with two predictors in
our experiment setup. Overall, dual-view models are roughly
2× slower than single-view models, and V-JEPA 2 dual-
view variants are about 1.3× slower than the corresponding
DINOv3 models.
D. Angled Reach Task
To evaluate orientation planning, we define a set of
orientation-intensive angled-reach tasks. We define an angled
reach run as successful if the translational and rotational
errors satisfy ∥pe −pg∥2 ≤ϵp and θ(qe, qg) ≤ϵθ, where qe
and qg are the actual and goal orientation expressed as
quaternions, and the orientation error is given by θ(qe, qg) =
2 cos−1 (|qe · qg|). We set the tolerances to ϵp = 0.05 m and
ϵθ = 0.21 (corresponding to 12◦), which must be satisfied
within 100 steps for a run to be counted as successful. The
final angular error (FAE) is computed at the final planning
step, regardless of whether a run is successful.
Fixed Background: First, we define four orientation-
intensive angled-reach tasks across four distinct tabletop
scenes in a HomeOfficeBackground. Two tasks pri-
marily require vertical reaching along the z-axis, followed
by clockwise and counterclockwise yaw rotations, respec-
tively. The remaining two tasks require coordinated trans-
lational motion in (x, y, z), together with clockwise and
counterclockwise yaw rotations. As shown in Table II, V-
JEPA 2-AC∗achieves a lower success rate than the trained
V-JEPA 2 side-view baseline on angled-reach tasks, sug-
gesting that while prior work performs well for coarse
translational planning, it struggles with fine-grained control.
The trained side-view predictors fail on the most rotation-
intensive angled-reach tasks and succeed only on the simpler
rotation cases. Since the V-JEPA 2 wrist-view predictor also
performs poorly, the corresponding independent dual-view
and DUET-VJEPA predictors show no improvement. The
DINOv3 wrist-view predictor shows substantially stronger
TABLE III
AGGREGATE ANGLED-REACH SUCCESS RATE (SR), FINAL POSITION
ERROR (FPE), AND FINAL ANGULAR ERROR (FAE) UNDER VISUAL
DISTRIBUTION SHIFTS OVER 100 EVALUATION RUNS PER MODEL.
Side
Wrist
Predictor
SR (%) ↑
FPE (cm) ↓
FAE (◦) ↓
DINOv3 Encoder
–
✓
Single-view
25%
15.0±10.0
54.3±42.4
✓
✓
Independent
45%
3.3±2.4
47.3±40.8
✓
✓
DUET-DINO
63%
2.6±2.1
30.9±36.5
TABLE IV
AGGREGATE ANGLED-REACH SUCCESS RATES (SR), FINAL POSITION
ERRORS (FPE), AND FINAL ANGULAR ERRORS (FAE) OVER 30
HARDWARE EVALUATION RUNS ACROSS THREE TASKS.
Side
Wrist
Predictor
SR (%) ↑
FPE (cm) ↓
FAE (◦) ↓
DINOv3 Encoder
–
✓
Single-view
3.3%
24.9±21.0
39.9±31.5
✓
✓
Independent
16.7%
14.3±17.2
40.0±42.0
✓
✓
DUET-DINO
26.7%
14.7±17.1
28.0±17.7
performance, suggesting that DINOv3 latent features capture
orientation changes effectively and that the corresponding
action-conditioned predictor learns these dynamics well. Al-
though the DINOv3 independent dual-view model improves
FPE by leveraging the side-view predictor, its FAE increases
when both views are combined, resulting in a lower success
rate. DUET-DINO reduces both final position and angular
errors, resulting in a higher success rate.
Diverse Backgrounds and Distractor Objects: Next, we
rigorously evaluate the best-performing models on the same
orientation-intensive tasks under visual distribution shifts
across five diverse backgrounds and tabletop objects. For
each of five backgrounds, we vary the tabletop scene from
one target object to five tabletop objects, including visually
similar distractors. We evaluate these variations across four
angled-reach tasks, resulting in 5 × 5 × 4 = 100 evaluation
runs per model. Table III shows that DUET-DINO remains
robust under these visual variations, while the wrist-view
predictor exhibits a noticeable drop in success rate. We
observe that the overall angled-reach planning performance is
particularly strong for asymmetrically shaped target objects.
Hardware Runs: Finally, we evaluate the best-performing
DINOv3-based predictors on three angled-reach tasks using
a real DROID robot setup. We selected challenging tar-
get poses near the table corners with both clockwise and
counterclockwise target orientations. Our DROID hardware
setup consists of a table-mounted Franka Research 3 robot
equipped with a Robotiq 2F-85 gripper, a ZED 2i camera
for the static side view, and a ZED Mini camera for the
wrist view. We use the Robot Control Stack [32] for real-
world robot control and VLAgents [33] to serve the policy.
Results in Table IV show that DUET-DINO achieves the
highest success rate on the challenging angled-reach poses,
outperforming the independent dual-view predictor. Due to
the computational cost and latency of CEM planning on
hardware, we use one CEM iteration with 500 candidate


TABLE V
AGGREGATE STAGE-WISE SUCCESS RATES (SR) FOR ANGLED-LIFT
TASKS OVER 40 EVALUATION RUNS ACROSS FOUR TASKS.
Side
Wrist
Predictor
Angled-Reach
SR (%) ↑
Lift
SR (%) ↑
DINOv3 Encoder
–
✓
Single-view
57.5%
20.0%
✓
✓
Independent
60.0%
57.5%
✓
✓
DUET-DINO
75.0%
60.0%
actions and 15 planning steps. This reduced planning budget
contributes to the lower hardware success rates relative to the
simulation results. For safety, actions resulting in collisions
or kinematic singularities were rejected, and runs were termi-
nated if unsafe actions were proposed for three consecutive
planning steps. The wrist-view predictor produced unsafe
actions more frequently, further contributing to its lower
success rate on hardware.
E. Angled Grasp and Angled Lift-to-Home
We
further
extend
the
angled-reach
tasks
in
the
HomeOfficeBackground with grasping and lifting sub-
tasks, thereby evaluating the models on sequential multi-
goal planning. We allocate 60 planning steps for angled
reaching (successful if the pose error is below 15 cm and
20◦), 10 steps for grasping, and 60 steps for lifting the
grasped object to the initial robot home pose (successful if
the end-effector position is within 20 cm of the home position
while maintaining the grasp). Most of the DUET-DINO runs
succeed in all sub-tasks, thereby completing the full lift task.
The DINOv3 wrist-view predictor often succeeds at angled
reaching and grasping but loses task context during the lift-
to-home phase, resulting in lift failure.
F. Ablation
Cross-view Cross Attention: We train an ablated DUET-
DINO variant without the cross-attention blocks. This re-
duces the reach performance of DUET-DINO in Table I
to 81% SR with 10.7±15.4 cm FPE, and the angled-reach
performance in Table II to 42.5% SR with 4.3±3.1 cm FPE
and 55.5±52.8◦FAE. This confirms the importance of cross-
view attention for fine-grained dual-view planning.
Camera Perturbations: The side-view predictor learns
action-conditioned visual dynamics from a fixed camera
viewpoint, i.e., robot joint motion during reaching and object
motion in contact-rich interactions. We therefore evaluate
robustness to camera-pose shifts on ReachBananaTask
over 30 runs, perturbing the camera by ±20 cm in x/y,
±10 cm in z, and ±11.5◦in roll, pitch, and yaw, using
matched perturbation seeds across models’ runs. Under these
shifts, DUET-DINO and the DINOv3 independent dual-
view predictor achieve 66.7% SR, compared with 46.7%
for DUET-VJEPA and 40.0% for the V-JEPA 2 independent
dual-view predictor, while both single-view side predictors
fail with 0% SR. These results highlight the sensitivity of
side-view planning to camera-pose shifts and the robustness
gained from incorporating the wrist view.
Side-view
Wrist-view
Encoders
DINOv3 Predictors
V-JEPA 2 Predictors
V-JEPA 2 
DINOv3  
DINOv3 Predictor  
V-JEPA 2 Predictor  
Episode transition step 
L1 norm
Fig. 5.
Mean latent changes captured by frozen encoders, DINOv3 action-
conditioned predictors, and V-JEPA 2 action-conditioned predictors over 30
runs of an angled-reach task.
Frame (t)
Frame (t+1)
Encoder (t)
Encoder (t+1)
Predictor (t+1)
DINOv3
V-JEPA 2
Fig. 6. Patch-wise latent distances for DINOv3 and V-JEPA 2 feature maps.
Lower ℓ1 distances indicate greater similarity to the selected reference patch.
Frames at t and t + 1 are shown after resizing to the respective encoder
inputs. Feature maps are visualized at 14 × 14 for DINOv3 and 16 × 16
for V-JEPA 2. DINOv3 produces 196 patches of 1280 dimensions, whereas
V-JEPA 2 produces 256 patches of 1408 dimensions.
Training Data: To study the effect of training data, we
train DUET-DINO on DROID only for 94.5k steps following
the prior work [2]. The DROID-only DUET-DINO achieves
78% SR on the reach tasks in Table I, showing the ben-
efit of additional training data on spatial planning. On the
angled-reach tasks in Table II, the DROID-only DUET-DINO
achieves 72.5% SR, showing no improvement in orientation
planning.
G. Embeddings Analysis
To understand why DINOv3-based predictors outperform
those based on V-JEPA 2, we analyze the underlying latent
representations. Using an angled-reach rollout, we encode
all frames with the frozen DINOv3 and V-JEPA 2 encoders
and compute the ℓ1 norm between consecutive feature maps.
This measures the sensitivity of each representation space
to visual changes over action steps. As shown in Fig. 5,
first column, V-JEPA 2 and DINOv3 encoder features exhibit
latent changes of similar magnitude, with slightly larger
side-view changes for V-JEPA 2. We then measure the
scene dynamics produced by the predictors by computing
the ℓ1 distance between the encoded input features and
the action-conditioned predicted next-step features. In the
second column, the DINOv3 side- and wrist-view predictions
follow the ground-truth temporal pattern, while generally


overestimating their magnitude due to prediction error. In
contrast, the last column shows that the V-JEPA 2 wrist-view
predictor underestimates latent changes, while the side-view
predictor better captures the magnitude, suggesting weaker
modeling of fine-grained action-conditioned dynamics by V-
JEPA 2 wrist predictor.
In Fig. 6, we analyze wrist-view patch correspondences by
selecting a target-object latent patch at time t and computing
its ℓ1 distance to all patches at t, t+1, and the predicted t+1
feature maps. Lower distances indicate higher feature simi-
larity. DINOv3 embeddings show coherent correspondences
over semantically related object regions, and its AC-predictor
closely preserves the encoded t + 1 pattern. In contrast, V-
JEPA 2 embedding exhibits noisier correspondences, with
predicted low-distance regions also appearing in semantically
unrelated areas.
V. CONCLUSION
We present DUET-DINO, a cross-view latent world model
for action-conditioned prediction and planning in robot ma-
nipulation. By combining cross-view latent conditioning with
DINO representations, DUET-DINO provides an effective
approach for modeling scene changes induced by transla-
tional, rotational, and gripper actions. The evaluations are
computationally expensive as CEM evaluates many candidate
actions through world models at each step. While this
enables rigorous world-model evaluation under diverse action
proposals, it limits real-time control. Our future work will
leverage DUET-DINO on a broader range of real-world
tasks and use action proposals from generalist robot policies,
such as vision-language-action (VLA) models, to reduce the
planning search space and enable faster closed-loop control.
VI. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We thank Volker Schneider for support with the hard-
ware setup and 3D-printing, and Prasanna Bhat for helping
with real-world evaluations. This work has been partially
supported by the German Federal Ministry of Research,
Technology and Space (BMFTR) under the Robotics Institute
Germany (RIG). Ralf R¨omer gratefully acknowledges sup-
port from the German Research Foundation (DFG) within
the RTG project ConVeY, funded by grant GRK 2428.
The authors acknowledge the HPC resources provided by
the Erlangen National HPC Center (NHR@FAU) under the
BayernKI project no. v106be.
REFERENCES
[1] N. Agarwal, A. Ali, M. Bala, Y. Balaji, E. Barker, T. Cai, P. Chattopad-
hyay, Y. Chen, Y. Cui, Y. Ding et al., “Cosmos world foundation model
platform for physical AI,” https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03575, 2025.
[2] M. Assran, A. Bardes, D. Fan, Q. Garrido, R. Howes, M. Komeili,
M. Muckley, A. Rizvi, C. Roberts, K. Sinha, A. Zholus, S. Arnaud,
A. Gejji, A. Martin, F. Robert Hogan, D. Dugas, P. Bojanowski,
V. Khalidov, P. Labatut, F. Massa, M. Szafraniec, K. Krishnakumar,
Y. Li, X. Ma, S. Chandar, F. Meier, Y. LeCun, M. Rabbat, and N. Bal-
las, “V-jepa 2: Self-supervised video models enable understanding,
prediction and planning,” https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.09985, 2025.
[3] B. Hou, G. Li, J. Jia, T. An, X. Guo, S. Leng, H. Geng, Y. Ze,
T. Harada, P. Torr et al., “World model for robot learning: A compre-
hensive survey,” https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.00080, 2026.
[4] L. Mur-Labadia, M. Muckley, A. Bar, M. Assran, K. Sinha, M. Rabbat,
Y. LeCun, N. Ballas, and A. Bardes, “V-JEPA 2.1: Unlocking dense
features in video self-supervised learning,” https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.
14482, 2026.
[5] Y. Guo, L. X. Shi, J. Chen, and C. Finn, “Ctrl-World: A controllable
generative world model for robot manipulation,” in Proc. of the
Int. Conf. on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2026.
[6] M. J. Kim, Y. Gao, T.-Y. Lin, Y.-C. Lin, Y. Ge, G. Lam, P. Liang,
S. Song, M.-Y. Liu, C. Finn et al., “Cosmos Policy: Fine-tuning video
models for visuomotor control and planning,” https://arxiv.org/abs/
2601.16163, 2026.
[7] B. Terver, T.-Y. Yang, J. Ponce, A. Bardes, and Y. LeCun, “What
drives success in physical planning with joint-embedding predictive
world models?” https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.24497, 2025.
[8] A. L. Chandra, I. Nematollahi, C. Huang, T. Welschehold, W. Bur-
gard, and A. Valada, “DiWA: Diffusion policy adaptation with world
models,” in Proc. of the Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2025.
[9] Z. Jiang, K. Liu, Y. Qin, S. Tian, Y. Zheng, M. Zhou, C. Yu, H. Li, and
D. Zhao, “World4RL: Diffusion world models for policy refinement
with reinforcement learning for robotic manipulation,” https://arxiv.
org/abs/2509.19080, 2025.
[10] Y. Li, Y. Zhu, J. Wen, C. Shen, and Y. Xu, “WorldEval: World model as
real-world robot policies evaluator,” https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.19017,
2025.
[11] Gemini
Robotics
Team,
K.
Choromanski,
C.
Devin,
Y.
Du,
D. Dwibedi, R. Gao, A. Jindal, T. Kipf, S. Kirmani, I. Leal et al.,
“Evaluating Gemini Robotics policies in a Veo world simulator,”
https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.10675, 2025.
[12] G. Zhou, H. Pan, Y. LeCun, and L. Pinto, “DINO-WM: World models
on pre-trained visual features enable zero-shot planning,” in Proc. of
the Int. Conf. on Machine Learning (ICML), 2025.
[13] X. Yang, R. Dagli, A. Zook, H. Hadfield, A. Goyal, S. Birchfield,
F. Ramos, and J. Tremblay, “RoboLab: A High-Fidelity Simulation
Benchmark for Analysis of Task Generalist Policies,” in Proc. of
Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2026.
[14] Wan Team, A. Wang, B. Ai, B. Wen, C. Mao, C.-W. Xie, D. Chen,
F. Yu, H. Zhao, J. Yang et al., “Wan: Open and advanced large-scale
video generative models,” https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20314, 2025.
[15] J. Jang, S. Ye, Z. Lin, J. Xiang, J. Bjorck, Y. Fang, F. Hu, S. Huang,
K. Kundalia, Y.-C. Lin et al., “DreamGen: Unlocking generalization in
robot learning through video world models,” in Proc. of the Conf. on
Robot Learning (CoRL), 2025.
[16] J. Quevedo, A. K. Sharma, Y. Sun, V. Suryavanshi, P. Liang, and
S. Yang, “WorldGym: World model as an environment for policy
evaluation,” in Proc. of the Int. Conf. on Learning Representations
(ICLR), 2026.
[17] Z. Mei, T. Yin, M. Baker, O. Shorinwa, and A. Majumdar, “World
models that know when they don’t know: Controllable video gen-
eration with calibrated uncertainty,” https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.05927,
2025.
[18] M. Assran, Q. Duval, I. Misra, P. Bojanowski, P. Vincent, M. Rabbat,
Y. LeCun, and N. Ballas, “Self-supervised learning from images with
a joint-embedding predictive architecture,” in Proc. of the IEEE Com-
puter Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2023.
[19] A. Bardes, Q. Garrido, J. Ponce, X. Chen, M. Rabbat, Y. LeCun,
M. Assran, and N. Ballas, “Revisiting feature prediction for learning
visual representations from video,” Transactions on Machine Learning
Research, 2024.
[20] O. Sim´eoni, H. V. Vo, M. Seitzer, F. Baldassarre, M. Oquab, C. Jose,
V. Khalidov, M. Szafraniec, S. Yi, M. Ramamonjisoa et al., “DINOv3,”
https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.10104, 2025.
[21] Y. Du, S. Yang, B. Dai, H. Dai, O. Nachum, J. Tenenbaum, D. Schu-
urmans, and P. Abbeel, “Learning universal policies via text-guided
video generation,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2023.
[22] K. Black, M. Nakamoto, P. Atreya, H. R. Walke, C. Finn, A. Ku-
mar, and S. Levine, “Zero-shot robotic manipulation with pre-trained
image-editing diffusion models,” in Proc. of the Int. Conf. on Learning
Representations (ICLR), 2024.
[23] Q. Bu, J. Zeng, L. Chen, Y. Yang, G. Zhou, J. Yan, P. Luo, H. Cui,
Y. Ma, and H. Li, “Closed-loop visuomotor control with generative
expectation for robotic manipulation,” in Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, 2024.


[24] Y. Wang, O. Bounou, G. Zhou, R. Balestriero, T. G. Rudner, Y. LeCun,
and M. Ren, “Temporal straightening for latent planning,” https://arxiv.
org/abs/2603.12231, 2026.
[25] R. Y. Rubinstein, “Optimization of computer simulation models with
rare events,” European Journal of Operational Research, 1997.
[26] H. Bharadhwaj, K. Xie, and F. Shkurti, “Model-predictive control
via cross-entropy and gradient-based optimization,” in Proc. of the
Learning for Dynamics & Control Conference (L4DC), 2020.
[27] A. Nagabandi, K. Konolige, S. Levine, and V. Kumar, “Deep dynamics
models for learning dexterous manipulation,” in Proc. of the Conf. on
Robot Learning (CoRL), 2020.
[28] C. Gao, H. Zhang, Z. Xu, C. Zhehao, and L. Shao, “FLIP: Flow-centric
generative planning as general-purpose manipulation world model,” in
Proc. of the Int. Conf. on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2025.
[29] Y. Yang, J. Liu, Z. Zhang, S. Zhou, R. Tan, J. Yang, Y. Du, and
C. Gan, “MindJourney: Test-time scaling with world models for spatial
reasoning,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
2025.
[30] A. Khazatsky, K. Pertsch, S. Nair, A. Balakrishna, S. Dasari, S. Karam-
cheti, S. Nasiriany, M. K. Srirama, L. Y. Chen, K. Ellis et al., “DROID:
A large-scale in-the-wild robot manipulation dataset,” in Proc. of
Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2024.
[31] P. Atreya, K. Pertsch, T. Lee, M. J. Kim, A. Jain, A. Kuramshin,
C. Eppner, C. Neary, E. Hu, F. Ramos et al., “RoboArena: Distributed
real-world evaluation of generalist robot policies,” in Proc. of the
Conf. on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2025.
[32] T. J¨ulg, P. Krack, S. Bien, Y. Blei, K. Gamal, K. Nakahara, J. Hechtl,
R. Calandra, W. Burgard, and F. Walter, “Robot Control Stack: A
lean ecosystem for robot learning at scale,” in Proc. of the IEEE
Int. Conf. on Robotics & Automation (ICRA), 2026.
[33] T. J¨ulg, K. Gamal, N. Nilavadi, P. Krack, S. Bien, M. Krawez,
F. Walter, and W. Burgard, “VLAgents: A policy server for efficient
vla inference,” https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.11250, 2026.
