StrucPhysVideo: Learning Physical Dynamics
from Structured Captions and Robot Actions
Awomo-WM Team1
Abstract
Modeling physical dynamics—how objects move, interact, and change state—is central to video world
models for embodied AI. We present StrucPhysVideo, a family of video world models that bridges physics-
focused data curation with language- and action-conditioned prediction of scene evolution. Our data pipeline
combines motion-aware video segmentation, quality and content filtering, and physical relevance verification
with structured annotations of objects, materials, and temporally localized interactions. By disentangling
camera motion from object behavior and explicitly describing contact, deformation, and state transitions, the
pipeline provides supervision grounded in observable physical events. Building on these data, we introduce
StrucPhysVideo-TI2V, a sparse Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) text-image-to-video model trained with a curriculum
that progressively emphasizes physical dynamics while retaining general-domain video data. StrucPhysVideo-
TI2V achieves state-of-the-art performance on Physics-IQ Verified, scoring 45.5% and outperforming Cosmos3-
Super-Image2Video by 2.8 percentage points. Caption ablations across backbones further demonstrate the
effectiveness of physics-focused supervision. We further extend StrucPhysVideo-TI2V to StrucPhysVideo-
IA2V, an interactive image-action-to-video world model that predicts visual outcomes from robot end-effector
commands. Action conditioning, causal autoregressive generation, and few-step distillation enable incremental
robot rollouts with only four denoising steps. Together, StrucPhysVideo advances physical dynamics modeling
from image- and language-conditioned video prediction toward action-driven interaction.
Website: https://westlakedi-awomo.github.io/StrucPhysVideo-Page/
Github: https://github.com/westlakedi-awomo/StrucPhysVideo
1
Introduction
Physical AI requires models that connect visual observations with the consequences of actions. Such models should
capture how objects persist, how interactions alter their states, and how scenes evolve in response to agent actions. Video
provides natural observations of these processes over time, making it a valuable medium for learning representations of
the physical world. Developing such video models requires training data that preserve meaningful physical interactions,
annotations grounded in physical events, and modeling frameworks that capture how actions drive scene evolution.
Preparing such data requires attention to the visual evidence available across time. Consider a video in which a
gripper approaches a cup, grasps it, and lifts it from a table. A cut made during the grasp can separate the approach from
the lift, leaving neither clip with the full progression. An editing transition may instead connect the cup on the table to
the cup already in the air, without showing how it moved between these states. Poor exposure or persistent blur may also
hide the contact point, even when the clip contains the full interaction. Filtering also requires care: a label printed on
a bottle belongs to the physical scene, while an overlaid banner may obscure the interaction. Rejecting all clips with
detected text would remove both. These cases motivate curation that considers temporal continuity, visual quality, and
the context of the content being filtered.
Language introduces another difficulty. A caption such as “a robot handles a cup” describes the general activity
but does not specify which cup is involved, whether it is pushed or lifted, or how its state changes. In a scene with
1See Contributions section for full author list. Please send correspondence to info@westlakedi.com.
1
arXiv:2609.18430v1  [cs.CV]  16 Sep 2026


StrucPhysVideo
Cosmos3-Super
Image2Video
LingBot-Video
MiniMax H3
(FL2VA)
Cosmos3-Nano
MiniMax H3 Max
Grok Imagine
Video
Magi-1 24B + GeoPhys
(BoN; OP)
Hunyuan
Video 1.5
Cosmos3-Edge
Wan 2.2 14B
CogVideoX-5B
Kandinsky-WM
1.0
Magi-1 24B (OP)
Wan 2.2 5B
Sora 2
P-Video
0
10
20
30
40
50
Score (%)
45.5
42.7
40.4
39.8
37.3
36.2
34.8
33.7
33.4
32.7
32.2
31.8
30.8
30.2
27.7
26.5
25.3
Physics-IQ Verified Score
Ours
Open-source / open-weight
Closed-source
*
Figure 1. Physics-IQ Verified benchmark Results [1]. StrucPhysVideo achieves the highest Physics-IQ Verified score among all
compared models in the text-image-to-video setting. * denotes our reproduction, and results for all other models are taken from the
benchmark snapshot dated 16 September 2026 [2].
several objects, these details are necessary to ground an instruction such as “Lift the red cup from the table.” The
order of approaching, grasping, and lifting also matters because each stage describes a different part of the interaction.
Camera movement adds further ambiguity: a stationary cup can move across the image as the camera pans. Language
supervision, therefore, needs to identify the participating objects, describe their actions in temporal order, and distinguish
object behavior from camera motion. When contact is hidden by a hand or missed by frame sampling, the description
should remain within the available visual evidence.
Even with a clear instruction, the execution of an interaction can remain ambiguous. For example, “Move the cup
to the other side of the table” could involve sliding it along the surface or lifting it, carrying it, and placing it down.
These executions differ in their contact sequence and intermediate states, although they may produce the same final
position. Action information provides an additional condition for guiding how the scene unfolds. If the supplied actions
correspond to a lift, a generated sequence in which the cup continues to slide would be inconsistent with those actions.
For embodied AI, the usefulness of the generated video depends on whether these visual changes follow the supplied
interaction throughout the sequence.
In this work, we present StrucPhysVideo, a Physical AI model that connects the curation of our privately collected
video data with language- and action-conditioned generation. We develop a cleaning and curation pipeline to prepare
clips with observable interactions, and an language annotation pipeline that organizes scene context, entities, and
temporal behaviors into structured descriptions. These descriptions provide a basis for constructing instructions
grounded in the video content. We further add action information to guide generation, with the aim of maintaining
consistency between the instruction, the supplied actions, and the resulting visual changes. Representative generations
across general-domain, physical-world, and embodied scenarios are shown in Figure 2. Together, these components
connect interaction-focused data curation and structured language supervision with language- and action-conditioned
video generation. As a result, StrucPhysVideo achieves strong physical dynamics prediction performance, scoring 45.5%
on Physics-IQ Verified and ranking first among the 17 models in our comparison based on the 16 September 2026
benchmark snapshot, as shown in Figure 1.
We make three contributions:
• Video cleaning and curation. We propose a pipeline that combines shot detection, motion-aware segmentation,
technical quality checks, and content filtering with targeted multimodal review to retain useful observations of
physical interactions.
• A structured language annotation pipeline. We construct structured descriptions of scenes, entities, and
temporally localized actions, separating camera motion from object behavior to produce instructions that are
2


Figure 2. Representative StrucPhysVideo generations under both the text-image-to-video (TI2V) and image-action-to-video (IA2V)
settings, spanning general-domain, physical-world, and embodied scenarios.
faithfully grounded in the video content.
• Action-conditioned video generation. We add action information to guide generation in StrucPhysVideo, with
the objective of producing interactions consistent with the supplied actions while preserving visual quality and
temporal continuity.
The remainder of this report is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the model architecture and post-training
procedures, including action-conditioned robot video generation. Section 3 details the data sourcing and curation
pipeline, structured physical captioning, and physical taxonomy. Section 4 presents evaluations of physical dynamics
prediction, caption ablations, and controlled robot-video comparisons. Finally, Section 5 discusses limitations and
directions for future research.
2
Method
2.1
StrucPhysVideo-TI2V
StrucPhysVideo-TI2V is a latent generative model that predicts how an observed scene evolves under an image and
language condition. Given a reference image I0 and a caption c, it models
pθ(I1:T | I0, c),
(1)
3


 
 
First frame
Condition tokens
Target video
Noisy video tokens
⋮
× N
(b) 
Clean video tokens
Transformer block
Input tokens
Output tokens
"In a modern kitchen 
setting, a person is 
cooking several pieces 
of golden-brown food,  
…"
Frozen Qwen3-VL
Timestep
Transformer block
Transformer block
RMSNorm + AdaLN
Joint Self-Attention
3D RoPE
RMSNorm × Gate
RMSNorm + AdaLN
Sparse Router
Shared expert
Top-K experts
SwiGLU
SwiGLU
+
Add 
noise
Frozen VAE Encoder
Text prompt
+
RMSNorm × Gate
+
(a) StrucPhysVideo architecture
Figure 3. StrucPhysVideo-TI2V overall architecture. The frozen Qwen3-VL-32B encoder jointly encodes the text prompt and
reference image, while the frozen VAE encodes the target video. The first clean video latent is retained as a reference and the
remaining latents are corrupted along the flow-matching path. Multimodal condition tokens and video tokens interact through joint
self-attention in the StrucPhysVideo Transformer. Each block combines timestep-modulated attention with routed and shared experts,
and the model predicts the latent velocity field used to supervise future-frame generation.
while preserving the subject identity, spatial layout, camera geometry, and visual style established by I0. The model
treats the reference image as both a semantic condition and a boundary condition on the generated trajectory. This
dual role directs model capacity toward learning plausible motion and state changes rather than reconstructing already
observed visual information.
Figure 3 summarizes the overall architecture. A frozen Qwen3-VL-32B encoder [3] jointly processes c and I0 to
produce a multimodal condition hc = Q(c, I0). In parallel, a frozen Wan video variational autoencoder (VAE) [4] maps
the target video V = {I0, I1, . . . , IT } to a normalized clean latent z0 = N(E(V)). The trainable StrucPhysVideo
backbone receives the multimodal condition, a corrupted video latent, and the flow timestep, and predicts a velocity field
in latent space. The VAE decoder D maps the final latent trajectory back to RGB video.
2.1.1
Dual-Path Reference Conditioning
The semantic path uses the final hidden states of Qwen3-VL-32B rather than generating an intermediate rewritten caption.
Because the encoder observes both modalities, hc captures visible entities and appearance together with linguistic
descriptions of motion, temporal order, and camera behavior. A learned projection maps this condition into the backbone
feature space. The latent path supplies a complementary low-level constraint. During training, the reference latent zref
0
is
taken from the first temporal position of the VAE encoding of the complete target video, avoiding a mismatch between
independently encoded images and the temporal boundary behavior of the video VAE.
After spatiotemporal patchification, video and condition tokens are concatenated and processed by non-causal joint
self-attention. Unlike a design that injects the condition through occasional cross-attention layers, this formulation allows
language, reference-image features, and evolving video features to interact in every Transformer block. Three-axis
rotary position embeddings, adapted from RoPE [5], distinguish temporal and spatial locations for video tokens while
retaining an ordered position convention for condition tokens.
4


2.1.2
Sparse Spatiotemporal Transformer
The trainable backbone is an approximately 30-billion-parameter spatiotemporal Transformer with 48 blocks, following
the sparse video-pretraining design of LingBot-Video [6]. Every feed-forward sublayer uses a sparse mixture-of-experts
(MoE) module containing routed experts and an always-active shared expert. For a token representation x, the router
selects a restricted top-k set T (x), and the MoE output is
MoE(x) =
X
i∈T (x)
αiEi(x) + Eshared(x),
(2)
where Ei denotes a routed expert and αi is its normalized routing weight. Group-constrained routing limits the
candidate experts before top-k selection. This architecture increases model capacity while keeping the amount of expert
computation per token bounded. Timestep-conditioned adaptive normalization, following the conditioning strategy used
in diffusion Transformers [7], and gated residual connections modulate both the attention and MoE branches across the
flow trajectory.
2.1.3
First-Frame-Constrained Flow Matching
We use the flow-matching formulation [8] and the same notation as the action-conditioned model in Section 2.2. For a
clean video latent z0, Gaussian noise ϵ, and flow time τ, the corrupted state and target velocity are
zτ = (1 −τ)z0 + τϵ,
v⋆= ϵ −z0.
(3)
Before each denoiser evaluation, the first temporal position of zτ is replaced by zref
0 . The model therefore observes the
clean initial state while predicting vθ(zτ, I0, c) for the full latent sequence. The reference position is excluded from the
regression loss:
LFM = Eτ,ϵ
h
w(τ) ∥M ⊙(vθ −v⋆)∥2
2
i
,
(4)
where M masks the reference position and retains all future positions. Thus, the initial latent participates in contextual
reasoning but is not itself a denoising target. Appendix A, Algorithm 1, gives the corresponding single-step training
procedure.
2.1.4
Inference
At inference, Qwen3-VL-32B again encodes (c, I0), and the VAE image-encoding path produces zref
0 . Sampling begins
from a Gaussian video latent whose first temporal position is replaced by this clean reference. A Flow-UniPC solver,
adapted from the UniPC predictor-corrector framework [9], integrates the predicted velocity field, and the reference
position is re-clamped after every solver update to prevent numerical drift. When classifier-free guidance [10] is used,
conditional and negative-condition predictions are combined as
bv = vuncond + st (vcond −vuncond) .
(5)
The final latent is inverse-normalized and decoded by D. Appendix A, Algorithm 2, provides the full inference
procedure. Concrete training resolutions, frame counts, batch sizes, optimization settings, precision choices, and
distributed execution details are reported in Section 4.1.1.
2.2
StrucPhysVideo-IA2V
We further extend StrucPhysVideo-TI2V into an interactive robot world model, StrucPhysVideo-IA2V, that predicts
how visual scenes evolve in response to robot command trajectories. To enable real-time interaction, we convert the
bidirectional video DiT into a causal few-step generator through a three-phase fine-tuning pipeline.
2.2.1
Problem Formulation and System Design
Let I0 be the first RGB observation and let a0:K−1 be a sequence of robot actions. Our image-and-action-to-video
(IA2V) model represents
pθ(I1:T | I0, a0:K−1),
(6)
5


while the text-image-action-to-video (TIA2V) variant additionally conditions on a textual command c. Both variants use
the same visual backbone and action interface; IA2V fixes the text context to the embedding of the empty string.
The system is organized into three phases. First, action injection adapts a pretrained bidirectional backbone to
follow end-effector commands over a fixed video window. Second, teacher forcing AR Diffusion training and Causal
ODE converts the resulting model into a streaming autoregressive generator. Finally, asymmetric DMD performs
distribution-level refinement by aligning the autoregressive generator with the high-quality bidirectional teacher,
recovering generation quality lost during causalization.
2.2.2
Robot Data and Action Representation
Each sample contains a 960 × 736 head-camera clip and the commanded dual-arm EEF trajectory, sampled at 5 FPS
and 15 Hz, respectively. For arm r ∈{L, R}, the input vector for the model is
ar
k = [ pr
k, ρ(qr
k), gr
k ] ∈R10,
(7)
where p ∈R3 is Cartesian position, q is an xyzw quaternion, g is the gripper target, and ρ(q) ∈R6 contains the
first two columns of the corresponding rotation matrix. This continuous 6D representation avoids the quaternion sign
ambiguity and is well suited to regression in neural networks [11]. Concatenating the left and right arms yields
ak = [aL
k , aR
k ] ∈R20.
(8)
Every coordinate is normalized with corpus-level mean and standard deviation.
Frame-aligned action windows.
At 15 Hz, every three action commands correspond to the transition between two
adjacent video frames sampled at 5 fps. Thus, commands [3i, 3i + 3) correspond to the transition from video frame i to
frame i + 1. Since each video latent represents four consecutive video frames, it is aligned with a window of twelve
action commands.
Causal action encoder.
As shown in Figure 4, the normalized action trajectory a0:K−1 is first projected into a 512-
dimensional embedding space, followed by a four-layer Transformer encoder with a strict causal attention mask:
u0:K−1 = Eact(LN(a0:K−1)Win + p0:K−1),
uk depends only on a0:k.
(9)
Here, pk denotes the learned positional embedding for action step k. The encoder employs a strict upper-triangular
causal attention mask, ensuring that each action token attends only to past and current commands. Finally, attention
pooling is performed within each action window to produce a frame-level action context hf, allowing each video latent
to condition exclusively on the action commands associated with its corresponding temporal interval.
2.2.3
Bidirectional IA2V Training
Reference-image conditioning.
For a clean latent video z0 and Gaussian noise ϵ, rectified-flow corruption constructs
zτ = (1 −τ)z0 + τϵ,
v⋆= ϵ −z0,
(10)
and trains the network to predict the velocity field [8]. We replace the first noisy latent by the clean reference latent
before every denoiser call and exclude it from the loss:
LFM = Eτ,ϵ

1
N
N
X
f=1
w(τ)
vθ(zτ, I0, a, c)f −v⋆
f
2
2

.
(11)
We use token-wise diffusion time-steps; reference tokens are marked with τ = 0, while generated tokens use the sampled
timestep. At inference, the solver updates the whole latent tensor, so the reference latent is re-clamped after every solver
step. This preserves the initial image exactly in latent space.
6


(a) Causal action encoder
(b) IA2V video backbone
Linear Projection
Causal Transformer
Patch embedding
Self-Attention
Action adapter
Text Cross-Attn
Prediction head
FFN
End-effector pose + gripper
+
Learned PE
Causal mask
Action window per 
latent video frame
Window pooling
Pooled action contexts
Reference + noisy video
Block × N
MLP
AdaLN
scale, shift
Action window
Cross-
Attention
Q
K, V
×
gate
+
…
…
…
Spatial tokens of one 
latent video frame
…
…
…
…
…
Action tokens
Pooled action 
context
…
…
…
Figure 4. StrucPhysVideo-IA2V architecture. A causal action encoder maps raw action commands into latent action tokens
and pooled contexts aligned with each video latent frame. In each DiT block, the pooled context modulates the video queries
through AdaLN, while the corresponding action window provides the keys and values for cross-attention. A gated residual integrates
action-conditioned features into the video stream.
Per-block AdaLN cross-attention adapter.
As illustrated in Figure 4, we inject action control after video self-attention
and before text cross-attention in every DiT block. For the video tokens xf belonging to latent frame f, a low-rank
modulation network predicts shift, scale, and gate vectors from hf:
(∆µf, ∆σf, gf) = Mℓ(hf),
(12)
exf = (1 + ∆σf) ⊙LN(xf) + ∆µf,
(13)
rf = Wo Attn
 Wqexf, WkuWf , WvuWf

,
(14)
xf ←xf + tanh(gf) ⊙rf.
(15)
Specifically, AdaLN first modulates the visual queries according to the corresponding trajectory. Cross-attention then
retrieves fine-grained action tokens as keys and values, and the resulting action features are injected into the video stream
through a gated residual connection. The gate is zero-initialized to preserve the functionality of the pretrained backbone
at initialization. The latent-zero frame serves as the observed reference and therefore receives no action residual. During
training, we use a learning rate of 2 × 10−6 for the pretrained backbone and a 25× larger learning rate for the newly
initialized action modules.
Unconditional Dropout for Teacher Guidance.
During bidirectional action-injection training, we apply unconditional
dropout to enable action CFG [10] in the teacher used for subsequent distillation. With probability pa, the complete
action sequence is replaced by a learned null-action token. On the mixed general-domain T2V/TI2V data, text dropout
replaces the complete text context with the empty-prompt context with probability pt; IA2V samples already use empty
text. The text and action dropout masks are sampled independently where both conditions are present. This trains the
conditional and null-condition branches needed to construct a teacher signal with stronger action guidance. Let C denote
supplied text plus action, N negative text plus action, T supplied text plus null action, and U negative text plus null
7


action. Teacher-side guidance supports
bvtext = N + st(C −N),
(16)
bvaction = T + sa(C −T),
(17)
bvjoint = U + st(T −U) + sa(C −T).
(18)
These guidance scales describe the teacher, not the deployed student. Subsequent distillation, as described in the next
section, transfers the teacher’s guidance into a single-branch causal few-step generator.
2.2.4
Causalization and Few-Step Distillation
The bidirectional model provides a high-quality, action-controllable teacher but cannot stream efficiently. Following
Causal Forcing and Causal Forcing++ [12, 13], we convert it into a few-step autoregressive model in three stages. The
same first-image and EE20 action conditions are supplied throughout all stages.
Stage 1: autoregressive diffusion training.
We initialize a causal model from the bidirectional checkpoint, partition
the latent sequence into temporal chunks, and replace full temporal attention by a causal mask. For chunk i, clean
ground-truth history z<i
gt is concatenated with a noised current chunk zi
τ. Teacher-forced flow matching trains
vAR(zi
τ, z<i
gt , τ, I0, a)
(19)
to denoise the current chunk while attending only to its past. This bridges the architecture gap before few-step distillation.
The resulting model is causal but still multi-step and is exposed to clean rather than self-generated history.
Stage 2: causal ODE initialization.
A bidirectional teacher can access future frames that are unavailable to a causal
student, creating a mismatch in their conditioning information. Following Causal Forcing, we use the autoregressive
diffusion model as the teacher for few-step initialization. For guided distillation, we collect probability-flow ODE
trajectories using CFG-guided predictions from this autoregressive teacher, and train a few-step generator Gϕ to predict
the corresponding clean endpoints from intermediate states at selected timesteps τ ∈S:
min
ϕ
E
hGϕ
 zi
τ, z<i
gt , τ, I0, a

−zi
0
2
2
i
.
(20)
Here, zi
0 denotes the teacher-generated endpoint for chunk i, and z<i
gt provides the ground-truth history. Action
conditioning is restricted to the current and preceding action windows. This trajectory regression transfers the teacher’s
guided flow map into the single-branch student, jointly distilling the effect of CFG and the multi-step sampling process
into a causal few-step initialization for subsequent distribution matching distillation.
Stage 3: asymmetric distribution matching.
The causal initializer inherits the quality ceiling and exposure bias of the
autoregressive teacher. We therefore self-roll out the few-step student to obtain ez, perturb it to ezτ, and apply asymmetric
distribution matching distillation (DMD) [14, 15]:
∇ϕLDMD = −Eez,τ

(sreal(ezτ, τ, I0, a) −sfake(ezτ, τ, I0, a)) ∂ez
∂ϕ

.
(21)
Here sreal denotes the CFG-guided score supplied by the frozen high-quality bidirectional teacher, while sfake denotes
the conditional score of the student rollout distribution estimated by an online diffusion model. The asymmetry is
intentional: generation remains causal, whereas the real-score teacher may use bidirectional context to pull the complete
rollout toward the higher-quality target distribution. Training on self-generated histories exposes the student to its
deployment distribution and directly addresses autoregressive error accumulation. The resulting model combines a
causal action interface, chunk-wise rollout, and few denoising evaluations per chunk for low-latency interaction.
3
Physical Data Pipeline
Physical world models learn from visual observations of objects moving, interacting, and changing state. Network
videos capture diverse physical processes, but editing transitions can interrupt an interaction, persistent overlays can
8


Figure 5. Physical data pipeline. Source videos undergo Spatiotemporal Video Splitting, Technical Quality Filtering, and Content
Purity Filtering. Physical Video Captioning first performs physical verification and generates a structured caption, then produces
physical tags in a second model call. The resulting clips and annotations provide candidates for final dataset selection.
obscure it, and poor image quality can hide the relevant visual evidence. Preparing these videos for training therefore
requires both clip curation and descriptions that identify the objects, actions, and temporal progression of each physical
event.
Our pipeline combines clip curation with structured captioning and tagging (Figure 5). Section 3.1 describes the
source collection, and Section 3.2 explains how source videos are split and filtered into candidate clips. Section 3.3
presents physical verification and the two annotation calls, while Section 3.4 defines the accompanying tagging record.
Section 3.5 summarizes the annotated outputs and their use in final dataset selection.
3.1
Data Sourcing
We assemble the input collection from two sources: agentic retrieval and domain-specific providers. For agentic retrieval,
a sourcing agent uses the physical taxonomy (Section 3.4) to expand queries across physical interactions, environments,
and manipulation tasks. Queries cover processes such as granular flows, multi-body impacts, tool use, and elastic
deformation. An initial relevance filter screens the retrieved videos before clip curation.
Domain-specific providers contribute physical-interaction and robotics footage that complements the retrieved
collection. Together, these sources provide diverse input video for the curation pipeline.
3.2
Video Curation Pipeline
The Video Curation Pipeline begins with Spatiotemporal Video Splitting (Section 3.2.1) to produce candidate clips.
Technical Quality Filtering (Section 3.2.2) and Content Purity Filtering (Section 3.2.3) then remove visual defects and
distracting content before physical verification and annotation.
9


3.2.1
Spatiotemporal Video Splitting
Uniform splitting can cut through an interaction or combine frames from different shots. We use Shot Boundary
Detection to identify continuous shots, followed by Motion-Aware Fixed Window Selection to extract fixed-duration
clips within each shot while favoring boundaries with low motion.
Shot Boundary Detection.
We combine PySceneDetect [16] with TransNetV2 [17] to detect abrupt cuts and gradual
transitions. Photometric changes provide candidate boundaries, while TransNetV2 captures transitions across multiple
frames. Nearby detections are consolidated into transition intervals. Comparing frames before and after each interval
suppresses transient flashes that return to the same scene. A short guard interval on either side of a confirmed transition
excludes blended frames. Subsequent clip selection stays within the resulting shot boundaries.
Motion-Aware Fixed Window Selection.
Within each shot, we compute motion energy as the temporally smoothed
mean magnitude of Farnebäck optical flow [18]. The flow computation restarts at each shot boundary. This signal guides
the placement of fixed-duration clips: lower motion at the endpoints reduces action truncation, while stronger motion
within a clip favors active physical processes.
For a target duration ℓ, we divide a shot into non-overlapping candidate intervals, each large enough to contain one
clip. Within a candidate interval [a, b], the clip start time is selected by
u∗= arg min
a≤u≤b−ℓ
[B(u) −λcA(u) + λpD(u)] .
(22)
Here, B(u) is the normalized motion energy at the two clip endpoints, A(u) is the normalized motion energy accumulated
within the clip, and D(u) is the squared normalized distance from the center of the feasible start-time range. The weights
λc and λp balance motion coverage and placement. Each selected clip remains inside its candidate interval, so clips do
not overlap or cross shot boundaries. Shots shorter than the target duration are discarded, and residual footage outside
complete windows is omitted.
Fixed-duration selection is the primary mode used in this pipeline. As an alternative, the splitter supports a variable-
duration mode in which dynamic programming partitions each shot under minimum and maximum duration constraints,
balancing clip lengths while penalizing cuts through active motion.
3.2.2
Technical Quality Filtering
Clips with valid temporal boundaries may still contain visual defects that obscure physical interactions. Technical
Quality Filtering checks Input Validity, Visual Quality, and Temporal Quality. Representative visual defects addressed
by these checks are shown in Figure 6.
Input Validity. We first verify that the clip can be decoded and that its resolution and duration meet the input
requirements. Clips failing these checks are rejected before further analysis.
Visual Quality. For black frames, solid-color frames, and exposure defects, we measure grayscale intensity, spatial
pixel variation, and the proportions of dark and saturated pixels across sampled frames. Their prevalence over time
distinguishes clips dominated by uninformative or poorly exposed frames from clips containing brief lighting changes.
Persistent defects cause rejection. Blur is assessed using the distribution of Laplacian variance across frames: a clip is
rejected when both its median sharpness and lower-tail sharpness are low, preserving fast interactions that contain only
brief motion blur.
Temporal Quality. We detect frame stuttering and camera shake. Consecutive-frame differences identify near-
duplicate frames, and clips with a high proportion of repeated frames are rejected. For camera shake, Lucas–Kanade
feature tracking [19] and RANSAC [20] estimate interframe camera motion. Subtracting a smoothed camera trajectory
isolates rapid translation, rotation, and scale fluctuations. Clips with strong, persistent residual jitter are rejected, while
smooth pans and tracking shots are retained.
Checks are applied from inexpensive validation to more costly motion analysis, stopping once a clip meets a rejection
condition. Retained clips proceed to Content Purity Filtering.
10


Figure 6. Examples of visual defects addressed by Technical Quality Filtering: solid-color frames, severe exposure defects, and
persistent blur. Input-validity and temporal-quality checks are described in the text.
Figure 7. Face and Talking-Head Filtering rejects presenter-dominated clips while retaining clips with distant operators and
human–object interactions.
3.2.3
Content Purity Filtering
Clear, stable clips can still be dominated by talking heads, screen recordings, or post-production overlays. Content
Purity Filtering uses four components: Face and Talking-Head Filtering, Screen Content Screening, Text and Watermark
Detection, and VLM Text Review. The first three identify unwanted content or trigger further review; VLM Text Review
resolves ambiguous text and screen-content detections.
Face and Talking-Head Filtering.
YuNet [21] detects faces and facial landmarks across sampled frames. Face
orientation, area, and temporal persistence identify clips dominated by frontal presentations and interviews. Combined
with talking-head cues, these measurements distinguish presenter-focused footage from clips in which an operator
participates in an object interaction (Figure 7).
Screen Content Screening.
A CLIP encoder [22] compares sampled frames with prompts for screen recordings,
presentation slides, and studio content, using physical-interaction prompts as a reference. Relative semantic scores
identify screen-dominated content and route ambiguous UI detections to VLM Text Review.
Text and Watermark Detection.
An EasyOCR-based text-detection branch [23] detects text regions and tracks their
position, size, and persistence across frames. Stable text tracks in frame corners identify screen-locked watermarks,
11


Figure 8. VLM Text Review distinguishes text on physical objects from post-production overlays. Clips containing authentic scene
text are retained for physical verification.
while recurring text near frame borders identifies subtitle and banner candidates. Clear watermark detections cause
rejection; other text detections proceed to VLM Text Review to distinguish overlays from text on physical objects.
VLM Text Review.
Qwen3-VL-4B [3] reviews six temporal keyframes arranged in a contact sheet and returns one of
five classes: scene_text, overlay_ui, both, no_text, or uncertain. Clips classified as scene_text or no_text
continue to physical verification; the remaining classes are rejected. This step preserves labels, gauges, and signs that
belong to the physical scene while removing post-production text and UI (Figure 8).
3.3
Physical Video Captioning
Content Purity Filtering removes distracting content, while Physical Video Captioning determines whether a clip
contains physical processes and describes their progression. Qwen3.6-27B [24] produces a structured caption with four
information groups:
1. Global Scene Dynamics: The environment, initial scene, and progression of the main physical interaction.
2. Camera Motion and Illumination: Camera movement, shot scale, viewing angle, composition, and lighting,
described separately from object motion.
3. World Knowledge and Material Properties: Relevant scene knowledge, object materials, and spatial relation-
ships grounded in the clip.
4. Entity-Level Temporal Behaviors: The participating objects and actors, with timestamped actions describing
contact, manipulation, deformation, motion, and changes of state.
Appendix B.1 presents a real structured-caption example using field names aligned with these four information
groups. It also shows the exact compact JSON object serialized as the input to the StrucPhysVideo text encoder.
To produce these descriptions and the accompanying tags, Frame Preparation establishes the shared inputs, Two-Call
Annotation generates the captions and tags, and Output Validation checks the resulting records.
Frame Preparation.
We uniformly extract 24 frames across each clip and retain their native timestamps. Frames are
resized to a maximum long-edge dimension of 768 pixels. The timestamped frames and clip metadata are stored in an
immutable cache and used by both annotation calls.
12


Figure 9. Physical verification in the first annotation call. Top row: rejected clips dominated by static product staging and decorative
hand gestures. Bottom row: retained clips containing physical interactions. Retained clips receive complete structured captions and
proceed to Closed-Set Tag Generation.
Two-Call Annotation.
The first call verifies physical relevance and generates the caption; clips that pass this check
proceed to the second call for tag generation:
1. Physical Verification and Caption Generation. Qwen3.6-27B receives the timestamped frames, clip metadata,
and domain tags. It returns the Boolean flag is_physics_related with supporting visual evidence and, for a
physical clip, the complete structured caption containing the four information groups above. Clips dominated by
static product staging or decorative gestures are rejected at this step (Figure 9).
2. Closed-Set Tag Generation. For clips passing physical verification, a second call receives the cached timestamped
frames and clip metadata, together with the first-call caption. It generates tags using the closed-set taxonomy
and attribute vocabularies described in Section 3.4. The frames remain the primary evidence when the caption
or external metadata differs from the visible content. The tags are merged with the caption into one annotation
record.
Output Validation.
Validation checks inference completion, JSON structure, required fields, closed-set tag values, and
action timestamps within the clip duration. The annotation manifest aligns each retained clip with its caption and tags
before final dataset selection.
3.4
Physical Taxonomy and Structured Tagging
For clips retained after video curation and physical verification, captions describe the scene, participating objects, and
temporal progression of events. Organizing these clips into a training dataset also requires consistent categories for
retrieval and composition analysis. Since free-form captions may describe the same activity or phenomenon in different
terms, we complement them with structured tags drawn from predefined vocabularies.
The tags cover general video attributes and physics-specific attributes. General attributes describe content
categories and photographic properties, while physics-specific attributes describe physical phenomena, materials, and
13


state changes. Section 3.3 presents the annotation procedure; this section defines the tags and their use in dataset
organization.
3.4.1
General Video Tags
General video tags comprise one content-category field and seven photographic fields (Table 1). The content category
identifies the setting or activity, such as a laboratory demonstration, cooking, or industrial operation. Photographic fields
record color, shot scale, viewing angle, lens type, composition, lighting characteristics, and light-source type.
Table 1. General video attributes, vocabulary sizes, and representative values.
Attribute
Vocabulary Size
Representative Values
Content category
14
Laboratory demonstration, educational explanation, daily life, industrial machin-
ery, natural phenomena
Color
14
Warm, cool, saturated, neutral, high-contrast, monochrome
Shot scale
7
Extreme close-up, close-up, medium shot, full shot, long shot
Viewing angle
6
Eye-level, low-angle, high-angle, overhead, Dutch angle
Lens type
5
Ultra-wide, wide-angle, standard, telephoto, macro
Composition
6
Rule of thirds, centered, symmetrical, diagonal, leading lines
Lighting characteristics
10
Natural sunlight, soft diffuse light, harsh direct light, low-key lighting,
backlighting
Light-source type
10
Natural, incandescent, fluorescent, LED point source, studio strobe, firelight
These tags describe the video’s content and presentation, but do not identify its physical processes. For example,
the category industrial-machinery does not distinguish rotation from cutting or deformation. Physics-specific tags
provide these distinctions.
3.4.2
Physics-Specific Attributes
Physical phenomenon taxonomy.
The taxonomy has two levels: top-level categories and leaf phenomena. Five top-level
categories—Mechanics, Fluid Dynamics, Thermal Dynamics, Wave & Optics, and Material Deformation—contain 26
predefined leaf phenomena. An additional category, Other, covers physical interactions outside this vocabulary and has
no predefined leaves. Figure 10 shows the category-to-leaf mapping.
Figure 10. Two-level taxonomy of physical phenomena. Five top-level categories contain 26 predefined leaf phenomena. An
additional Other category covers physical interactions outside the vocabulary and has no predefined leaves.
14


Figure 11. Multi-label physical annotations for car washing, boiling water, and lathe cutting. Each example contains six frames and
the associated phenomenon tags, grouped by top-level category. A filled star marks the primary phenomenon; outlined tags indicate
additional phenomena.
Multi-label annotation.
A clip may receive multiple labels at both taxonomy levels because it can contain several
processes, either simultaneously or at different stages. A primary phenomenon is designated when a single category
assignment is needed for statistics or sampling; the remaining labels are retained. The tags record which phenomena
occur, while the timestamped caption describes their temporal progression and the participating objects.
Figure 11 shows annotations for car washing, boiling water, and lathe cutting. In the lathe-cutting example, workpiece
rotation and the changes produced by cutting occur within the same clip. A content label identifies the activity as an
industrial operation, whereas the phenomenon labels distinguish the processes within it. The primary label provides a
single attribution without replacing this multi-label description.
Additional physical attributes.
Material categories include rigid solids, deformable solids, liquids, and granular
materials. State-change labels describe changes such as deformation, phase transition, and fragmentation. These
attributes complement phenomenon labels by describing the participating materials and the resulting changes. Interaction
viewpoint distinguishes clips without human participation from first- and third-person interaction views.
Physical anomaly flags record visible behaviors such as object interpenetration, unrealistic collisions, and gravity-
defying motion. They differ from the physical relevance indicator returned by the first annotation call: a clip may
contain a physical interaction while depicting that interaction implausibly. The judgment concerns visible behavior
rather than whether the video is rendered or generated.
We exclude absolute mass, force magnitude, real-world speed, and temperature from the annotation. For videos
without the necessary scale, calibration, or additional measurements, the annotator cannot reliably determine these
quantities. Requesting them would encourage unsupported estimates and introduce annotation noise. The tags instead
describe physical phenomena, material categories, and visible state changes. Image-based motion measurements are
retained separately and are not interpreted as estimates of physical energy.
The content and phenomenon tags allow dataset composition to be examined by both scene type and physical
process. For subsequent selection, they remain associated with the quality and motion measurements retained from
video curation. Section 3.5 summarizes the annotated candidates and their use in selecting data to match the distribution
of a reference pretraining corpus.
15


Figure 12. Curation from source videos to annotated clips. Spatiotemporal Video Splitting produces candidate clips; Technical
Quality Filtering and Content Purity Filtering select clips for Physical Video Captioning. Physical Verification selects physical clips,
which receive structured captions and closed-set tags.
3.5
Curation Outcome
Figure 12 summarizes clip filtering at three checkpoints: Technical Quality Filtering, Content Purity Filtering, and
Physical Verification. Technical Quality Filtering retains clips with usable visual and temporal quality. Content Purity
Filtering removes presenter-dominated footage and overlays while preserving text that belongs to the scene. Physical
Verification then selects clips containing physical processes for captioning and tagging.
The annotation-stage output pairs each retained clip with a structured caption and a tagging record. Captions describe
the scene, objects, and temporal progression of interactions; tagging records organize their categorical attributes, curation
measurements, and derived information.
These annotated candidates are used in a final dataset-selection step for distribution matching against a reference
pretraining corpus. Tags, sampling weights, and deduplication results support this selection, linking the clip-level
records to the composition of the resulting training data.
3.6
Action-Conditioned Data Curation
To support action-conditioned training across heterogeneous robot datasets, we organize data preparation into Data
Ingestion, Canonical Production, and Output Validation (Figure 13).
Data Ingestion applies dataset-specific admission checks to dataset identity, release metadata, input integrity, source
schema, and semantic coverage. Dedicated ingest adapters discover episodes, map source fields, align temporal streams,
interpret actions and observations, and preserve provenance. The resulting EpisodeIR provides a common representation
of each episode and a stable semantic boundary between source formats and downstream training representations.
Canonical Production converts EpisodeIR into versioned training datasets. Each Canonical version specifies its field
layout, action semantics, masks, temporal sampling and terminal-frame policies, and normalization strategy. Semantic
checks verify gripper values, rotations, and action targets, together with their alignment to observations.
Output Validation checks numerical validity, field and mask consistency, normalization statistics, and accounting of
retained and excluded episodes. Each release includes a manifest, lineage records, and quality-check results. Independent
readback verifies persisted data and compatibility with the training loader. Exclusions and processing failures are
recorded against their source episodes, while accepted data provide aligned robot observations and action trajectories for
training.
16


Figure 13. Action-conditioned data curation. Dataset-specific gates and adapters produce a unified EpisodeIR. Canonical versions
define the training representations, with semantic checks during production and quality checks and independent readback before
delivery of the corresponding training datasets.
4
Experiments
We evaluate the model in two complementary settings. Text-image-to-video (TI2V) evaluation measures the physical
plausibility of generated dynamics under image and language conditioning, whereas image-action-to-video (IA2V)
evaluation tests whether robot rollouts follow action trajectories while preserving visual fidelity.
4.1
Text-Image-to-Video Evaluation
4.1.1
Implementation Details
Starting from the official LingBot-Video checkpoint [6], we trained the StrucPhysVideo-TI2V 30B backbone on 81-
frame clips at 15 fps and 480 × 832 resolution. Training used four eight-H200 nodes with local and global batch sizes
of 3 and 96. We combined eight-way expert parallelism, FSDP2 sharding of non-expert parameters, DeepEP token
dispatch, non-reentrant activation checkpointing, and packed variable-length attention.
The corpus comprised 10,000 hours each of physics-focused videos and high-quality general-domain videos collected
from the Internet. A dynamic schedule sampled the general-domain and physics-focused pools at 70%/30% during the
first 60% of training, 40%/60% during the next 30%, and 20%/80% during the final 10%. This progression preserved
general-purpose generation while increasing the emphasis on physical dynamics.
Training retained FP32 master parameters and optimizer states, used BF16 forward computation, FP32 gradient
reduction and sensitive operations, and TF32 matrix multiplication where supported. AdamW used a learning rate of
1 × 10−5, weight decay of 1 × 10−2, β = (0.9, 0.999), and a gradient-norm limit of 1.0. The cosine schedule used
100 warm-up steps and a 1 × 10−6 minimum learning rate. Flow matching used 1,000 timesteps, a shift of 5, and
logit-normal timestep sampling. The Qwen3-VL condition encoder and Wan VAE remained frozen in evaluation mode.
4.1.2
Performance Comparison
Physics-IQ Verified evaluates the reproduction of real physical dynamics. Physics-IQ contains 66 experiments across
solid and fluid dynamics, thermodynamics, optics, and magnetism; three viewpoints and two repetitions yield 396
videos [25]. For 198 instances, models receive the 3-second frame and description and predict the next 5 seconds, while
paired repetitions quantify natural variation. The Verified protocol corrects ambiguous prompts and spurious reference
17


Case 2:   Start   ->   End
Ground Truth
Wan2.2-5B
Lingbot-Video-30B
Ours
Case 1:   Start   ->   End
Ground Truth
Wan2.2-5B
Lingbot-Video-30B
Ours
Figure 14. Qualitative comparison among ground truth, Wan2.2-5B[4], LingBot-Video-30B[6], and StrucPhysVideo (Ours), with
five frames shown from the start to the end of each sequence. In Case 1, the red boxes highlight substantial deformation of the
track geometry, while the blue boxes indicate that the ball fails to roll along the shape of the track. In contrast, our model generates
physically plausible ball-rolling motion that faithfully follows the track geometry. In Case 2, the blue boxes highlight the loss of the
subject’s key facial features, whereas our model effectively preserves the subject’s identity and distinctive appearance.
motion and averages scores per sample [1]. Its score equally combines spatial IoU, spatiotemporal IoU, weighted spatial
IoU, and inverse normalized pixel MSE after normalization by paired-video variation. Higher values indicate closer
agreement in event location, timing, magnitude, and appearance [1].
Under the verified image-to-video protocol, StrucPhysVideo achieved 45.5%, the highest score among the 17 models
in the comparison based on the 16 September 2026 benchmark snapshot (Figure 1). We reproduced the LingBot-Video
score, while all other comparison scores were taken directly from the benchmark snapshot. StrucPhysVideo was 2.8
percentage points above Cosmos3-Super Image2Video at 42.7% [26] and 9.3 points above the strongest closed-source
comparator, MiniMax H3 Max at 36.2% [2, 27]. This result is specific to the evaluated protocol and leaderboard
18


Figure 15. Qualitative StrucPhysVideo-TI2V results for general-domain video generation. Each row shows five temporally ordered
frames from one generated video, spanning people, vehicles, landscapes, and camera motion.
snapshot. Figure 14 compares StrucPhysVideo directly with Wan2.2-5B and LingBot-Video-30B. Additional examples
span general-domain scenes (Figure 15), physical phenomena and interactions (Figure 16), and embodied manipulation
(Figure 17); these selected outputs illustrate breadth but do not replace quantitative evaluation.
19


Figure 16. Qualitative StrucPhysVideo-TI2V results for physical-world video generation. Each row shows five temporally ordered
frames from one generated video depicting a physical phenomenon or object interaction.
20


Figure 17. Qualitative StrucPhysVideo-TI2V results for embodied scenarios. Each row shows five temporally ordered frames from
a generated robot manipulation sequence.
21


Baseline
+ Raw caption data
+ Physics caption data
20
25
30
35
40
45
Verified score (%)
24.8*
31.0
33.2
37.9*
43.9
45.5
Wan2.2 5B
LingBot-Video 30B
Figure 18. Caption ablation on Physics-IQ Verified. Wan2.2-5B [4] and LingBot-Video-30B [6] are evaluated under three settings:
the reproduced baseline, incorporation of raw captions, and incorporation of physics-focused captions. Physics-focused captions
yield the highest Verified Score for both backbones. Only Physics-IQ Verified scores are reported. ∗denote scores reproduced by us.
4.1.3
Ablation Studies
To isolate the effect of caption supervision, we conducted an ablation on Wan2.2-5B [4] and LingBot-Video-30B [6]
using data prepared with our pipeline (Figure 18). For the Case 1 video in Figure 14, Appendix B.1 (Listing 1) provides
the real structured caption, and Appendix B.2 (Listing 2) provides the corresponding real raw caption. Adding raw
captions increased the Physics-IQ Verified Score from 24.8% to 31.0% for Wan2.2-5B and from 37.9% to 43.9% for
LingBot-Video-30B. Physics-focused captions achieved the highest score for both backbones, reaching 33.2% and
45.5%, respectively. These results correspond to gains of 2.2 and 1.6 percentage points over raw captions and show that
physics-focused captions outperform raw captions on the full dataset for both backbones.
4.2
Image-Action-to-Video Evaluation
4.2.1
Implementation Details
We train our IA2V model on AgiBot World-Beta [28] together with over 500 hours of general-domain T2V/TI2V data
to preserve its original TI2V and general-domain generation capabilities. We evaluate the model on a fixed subset of
5K video clips from the AgiBotWorld-Alpha corpus [28]. All evaluations use the final causal few-step student after
the complete distillation pipeline. Unless otherwise specified, the student uses four denoising steps per chunk, with
no explicit CFG at inference. At each control step, the input command is represented as the EE20 end-effector vector
introduced in Section 2.2.2.
4.2.2
Performance Comparison
For comparison, we evaluate DreamDojo-AgiBot-14B [29] and A2World [30], both of whose training corpora cover
AgiBot robot platforms. Each model retains its native action representation. Specifically, DreamDojo uses a 22-
dimensional action vector covering the arm joints, grippers, head, waist, and base velocity, whereas A2World adopts
a 14-dimensional representation consisting of end-effector translation and rotation increments in the local coordinate
frame. In contrast, our model relies solely on the EE20 end-effector target pose representation.
We evaluate standard fidelity metrics, including PSNR, SSIM, and LPIPS. In addition, Motion MAE measures the
mean absolute error between the predicted and ground-truth adjacent-frame RGB differences.
Beyond overall video fidelity, we further evaluate whether the generated videos faithfully reflect the commanded
robot actions in terms of trajectory consistency and the physical plausibility of robot-object interactions. Specifically, we
report WorldArena-style metrics [31], including: (1) Trajectory Accuracy (Traj. Acc.), which measures the agreement
between detected image-space gripper trajectories using dynamic time warping; (2) Depth Accuracy (Depth Acc.),
which measures the consistency between depth maps estimated from the generated and ground-truth videos; and (3)
22


Interaction Quality, a VLM-assigned score ranging from 1 to 5 that evaluates the physical plausibility of robot-object
interactions, with higher scores indicating more plausible interactions.
As shown in Table 2, StrucPhysVideo-IA2V consistently outperforms DreamDojo-AgiBot across all evaluated
metrics. Beyond higher frame-level fidelity (PSNR, SSIM, and LPIPS) and lower motion error, our model achieves
substantially higher trajectory accuracy (0.8330 vs. 0.7905), while also improving depth consistency and interaction
quality. These results indicate that StrucPhysVideo-IA2V not only produces more visually faithful videos, but also more
accurately reflects the commanded robot actions and the resulting physical interactions.
Method
PSNR ↑
SSIM ↑
LPIPS ↓
Motion MAE ↓
Traj. Acc. ↑
Depth Acc. ↑
Interaction ↑
DreamDojo-AgiBot
20.86
0.8277
0.1825
0.03509
0.7905
0.9736
3.366
StrucPhysVideo-IA2V
22.12
0.8365
0.1602
0.03368
0.8330
0.9854
3.470
Table 2. Quantitative performance on 5K video clips. Metrics exclude the reference frame. PSNR is in dB. Traj. Acc. and Depth
Acc. are normalized to [0, 1], with higher values indicating better agreement.
To match A2World’s default 21-frame, 256 × 256-per-view generation setting, we recompute all metrics on the
same head-camera crop, resized to 256 × 256, over the first 21 frames at 5 fps; the results are shown in Table 3. The
corresponding qualitative rollouts are shown in Figure 19.
Method
PSNR ↑
SSIM ↑
LPIPS ↓
Motion MAE ↓
Traj. Acc. ↑
Depth Acc. ↑
Interaction ↑
A2World
17.71
0.7110
0.2105
0.04316
-
-
-
DreamDojo-AgiBot
22.14
0.8415
0.1687
0.03338
0.7853
0.9685
3.365
StrucPhysVideo-IA2V
22.89
0.8571
0.1550
0.03172
0.8287
0.9827
3.470
Table 3. Quantitative comparison on 256 × 256 head-view grid and frames 1–20 after the reference frame. A2World additionally
receives initial wrist views and observed-pose-derived controls. Qualitative comparison is provided in Figure 19.
4.2.3
Ablation on Teacher Dropout and Guidance
We investigate how unconditional dropout during bidirectional action-injection training and teacher-side action CFG
during distillation affect the final distilled student. We compare three teacher-training settings: (1) no dropout for either
action or text conditions; (2) dropout applied only to the action condition; and (3) independent dropout applied to both
action and text conditions. The CFG settings in Table 4 refer to the teacher-side, rather than to student inference. All
reported metrics are measured using four-step, single-branch student rollouts without explicit CFG.
As shown in Table 4, we make three interesting observations: (1) even without CFG, applying dropout only to the
action condition does not degrade performance; (2) action CFG substantially improves both action conditioning and
IA2V generation quality. In our setting, an action CFG scale of 2 performs best, while further increasing the scale
becomes detrimental; and (3) even in IA2V mode, where text CFG is not used at inference time, introducing a small
amount of text dropout during training still benefits IA2V performance. Note that text dropout is applied only to the
general-domain T2V/TI2V data mixed into training, while the IA2V data use no text prompts.
23


Start
End
Case 1
Ground truth
A2World
DreamDojo
Ours
Case 2
Ground truth
A2World
DreamDojo
Ours
Figure 19. AgiBot head-view rollouts at 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 seconds. Each group shows GT, A2World, DreamDojo-AgiBot, and ours.
All start from the same head image. All three models produce arm motion, but the generated trajectories and local robot geometry
differ from ground truth. A2World also exhibits visible appearance distortion in these examples.
24


Action dropout
Text dropout
Teacher CFG setting
Motion MAE ↓
Traj. Acc. ↑
0%
0%
w/o CFG
0.03537
0.7913
15%
0%
w/o CFG
0.03455
0.7896
15%
0%
Action CFG sa = 2
0.03449
0.8270
15%
0%
Action CFG sa = 3
0.03517
0.8284
15%
0%
Action CFG sa = 5
0.03583
0.8195
15%
5%
Action CFG sa = 2
0.03432
0.8272
Table 4. Effects of teacher dropout and guidance on final distilled students. Dropout rates refer to bidirectional action-injection
training. The reported action CFG scale is used both by the AR teacher to generate causal ODE distillation trajectories and by the
bidirectional teacher to compute the real score during DMD. Bold and underlined values indicate the best and second-best values in
each metric column, respectively.
5
Conclusion
We presented StrucPhysVideo, a video world model developed through physically grounded data curation, annotation,
and post-training. Our pipeline combines video sourcing and filtering with structured captions and physical phenomenon
tags to preserve and describe how objects move, interact, and change state. By explicitly annotating participating objects,
material properties, temporally localized interactions, and object motion distinct from camera movement, these data
provide physically grounded supervision for adapting video foundation models toward physical world modeling. We
further extend this framework to action-conditioned video prediction using paired action–video data, connecting robot
commands with the resulting evolution of visual scenes.
StrucPhysVideo achieves 45.5% on Physics-IQ Verified, while caption ablations across two video backbones
consistently demonstrate the benefit of physics-focused language supervision over raw captions. Our action-conditioned
experiments further provide an initial step toward interactive video world models that respond to embodied actions.
Looking forward, an important direction is to bridge world prediction and downstream embodied policies, where
generated visual dynamics can support interaction, planning, and control in the physical world. This requires extending
the current model to longer-horizon streaming rollouts while maintaining physical consistency over time, as well as
further reducing inference latency—potentially to one- or two-step generation—to enable more responsive interaction.
Beyond generation efficiency, supporting richer action spaces, and enabling cross-embodiment generalization across
diverse robot platforms are also important steps toward more general embodied world models. Together, we hope
StrucPhysVideo provides a foundation for advancing video generation from modeling observable physical dynamics
toward interacting with the physical world.
6
Contributors
All core contributors listed below contributed equally to this work and are listed alphabetically by first name.
Data Infra & Model Training: Enhui Ma, Kaiwen Guo, Tingrui Zhang, Wei Song, Yingshui Tan.
Project Leads: Jianhua Xu, Tong Zhang.
Project Sponsors: Jianhua Xu, Kaicheng Yu.
References
[1] Tim Rädsch, Yuki M. Asano, Hilde Kuehne, Stefan Bauer, Priyank Jaini, Robert Geirhos, and Carsten T. Lüth.
Physics-iq verified. arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.18943, 2026.
[2] Physics-IQ Benchmark Contributors. Physics-iq and physics-iq verified: Benchmarking physical understanding
in generative video models. https://github.com/google-deepmind/physics-iq-benchmark, 2026. Official
benchmark repository and leaderboard, accessed 10 September 2026.
25


[3] Shuai Bai, Yuxuan Cai, Ruizhe Chen, Keqin Chen, Xionghui Chen, Zesen Cheng, Lianghao Deng, Wei Ding,
Chang Gao, Chunjiang Ge, et al. Qwen3-vl technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.21631, 2025.
[4] Wan Team. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20314,
2025.
[5] Jianlin Su, Yu Lu, Shengfeng Pan, Ahmed Murtadha, Bo Wen, and Yunfeng Liu. Roformer: Enhanced transformer
with rotary position embedding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.09864, 2021.
[6] Shuailei Ma, Jiaqi Liao, Xinyang Wang, Jingjing Wang, Chaoran Feng, Zijing Hu, Chong Bao, Zichen Xi, Yuqi
Gan, Weisen Wang, Yanhong Zeng, Qin Zhao, Zifan Shi, Wei Wu, Hao Ouyang, Qiuyu Wang, Shangzhan Zhang,
Jiahao Shao, Yipengjing Sun, Liangxiao Hu, Lunke Pan, Nan Xue, Kecheng Zheng, Yinghao Xu, Xing Zhu,
Yujun Shen, and Ka Leong Cheng. Scaling mixture-of-experts video pretraining for embodied intelligence. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2607.07675, 2026.
[7] William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 4195–4205, 2023.
[8] Yaron Lipman, Ricky T. Q. Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matthew Le. Flow matching for
generative modeling. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[9] Wenliang Zhao, Lujia Bai, Yongming Rao, Jie Zhou, and Jiwen Lu. Unipc: A unified predictor-corrector framework
for fast sampling of diffusion models. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 36, 2023.
[10] Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans. Classifier-free diffusion guidance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.12598, 2022.
[11] Yi Zhou, Connelly Barnes, Jingwan Lu, Jimei Yang, and Hao Li. On the continuity of rotation representations in
neural networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019.
[12] Hongzhou Zhu, Min Zhao, Guande He, Hang Su, Chongxuan Li, and Jun Zhu. Causal forcing: Autoregressive
diffusion distillation done right for high-quality real-time interactive video generation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2602.02214, 2026.
[13] Min Zhao, Hongzhou Zhu, Kaiwen Zheng, Zihan Zhou, Bokai Yan, Xinyuan Li, Xiao Yang, Chongxuan Li, and
Jun Zhu. Causal forcing++: Scalable few-step autoregressive diffusion distillation for real-time interactive video
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.15141, 2026.
[14] Tianwei Yin, Michaël Gharbi, Richard Zhang, Eli Shechtman, Fredo Durand, William T. Freeman, and Taesung
Park. One-step diffusion with distribution matching distillation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.18828, 2024.
[15] Tianwei Yin, Qiang Zhang, Richard Zhang, William T. Freeman, Fredo Durand, Eli Shechtman, and Xun Huang.
From slow bidirectional to fast autoregressive video diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2025.
[16] PySceneDetect Contributors. PySceneDetect: Video scene detection and analysis. https://www.scenedetect.
com/. Official project website, accessed 16 September 2026.
[17] Tomáš Souˇcek and Jakub Lokoˇc. TransNet V2: An effective deep network architecture for fast shot transition
detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.04838, 2020.
[18] Gunnar Farnebäck. Two-frame motion estimation based on polynomial expansion. In Image Analysis: 13th
Scandinavian Conference, SCIA 2003, volume 2749 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 363–370.
Springer, 2003. doi: 10.1007/3-540-45103-X_50.
[19] Bruce D. Lucas and Takeo Kanade. An iterative image registration technique with an application to stereo vision.
In Proceedings of the Seventh International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 674–679, 1981.
[20] Martin A. Fischler and Robert C. Bolles.
Random sample consensus: A paradigm for model fitting with
applications to image analysis and automated cartography. Communications of the ACM, 24(6):381–395, 1981.
doi: 10.1145/358669.358692.
[21] Wei Wu, Hanyang Peng, and Shiqi Yu. YuNet: A tiny millisecond-level face detector. Machine Intelligence
Research, 20:656–665, 2023. doi: 10.1007/s11633-023-1423-y.
26


[22] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. Learning transferable visual
models from natural language supervision. In Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine
Learning, volume 139 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 8748–8763. PMLR, 2021. URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v139/radford21a.html.
[23] Jaided AI. EasyOCR. https://github.com/JaidedAI/EasyOCR. Official software repository, accessed 16
September 2026.
[24] Qwen Team. Qwen3.6-27B. https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen3.6-27B, 2026. Official model card,
accessed 16 September 2026.
[25] Saman Motamed, Laura Culp, Kevin Swersky, Priyank Jaini, and Robert Geirhos. Do generative video models
understand physical principles? In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer
Vision, pages 948–958, 2026.
[26] Aditi, Niket Agarwal, Arslan Ali, Jon Allen, et al. Cosmos 3: Omnimodal world models for physical ai. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2606.02800, 2026.
[27] MiniMax. Minimax h3. https://huggingface.co/MiniMaxAI/MiniMax-H3, 2026. Official model card,
accessed 10 September 2026.
[28] AgiBot World Contributors. Agibot world colosseo: A large-scale manipulation platform for scalable and intelligent
embodied systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.06669, 2025.
[29] Shenyuan Gao, William Liang, Kaiyuan Zheng, Ayaan Malik, Seonghyeon Ye, Sihyun Yu, Wei-Cheng Tseng,
Yuzhu Dong, Kaichun Mo, Chen-Hsuan Lin, et al. Dreamdojo: A generalist robot world model from large-scale
human videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.06949, 2026.
[30] Ze Huang, Jiahui Zhang, Hairuo Liu, Chenxi Zhang, Ran Cheng, and Li Zhang. Learning transferable dynamics
priors from action to world modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.29501, 2026.
[31] Yu Shang, Zhuohang Li, Yiding Ma, Weikang Su, Xin Jin, Ziyou Wang, Lei Jin, Xin Zhang, Yinzhou Tang,
Haisheng Su, et al. Worldarena: A unified benchmark for evaluating perception and functional utility of embodied
world models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.08971, 2026.
27


A
StrucPhysVideo-TI2V Training and Inference Algorithms
Algorithm 1 summarizes one stochastic training step for StrucPhysVideo-TI2V. The frozen encoders first construct the
multimodal condition and normalized clean video latent. The procedure then samples a flow time and noise realization,
forms the corrupted latent, and restores its first temporal position from the clean reference latent. The Transformer
predicts the flow-matching velocity, while masking excludes the observed reference position from the denoising objective.
Consequently, each update trains only the future latent trajectory while retaining the first frame as context.
Algorithm 1 StrucPhysVideo-TI2V Single-Step Training
Require: Video V = {I0, I1, . . . , IT }, caption c, frozen multimodal encoder Q, frozen VAE encoder E
1: hc ←Q(c, I0)
2: z0 ←N(E(V))
3: Extract the reference latent zref
0
from the first temporal position of z0
4: Sample ϵ ∼N(0, I) and a logit-normal flow time τ
5: zτ ←(1 −τ)z0 + τϵ
6: Replace the first temporal position of zτ with zref
0
7: vθ ←StrucPhysVideo(zτ, τ, hc)
8: v⋆←ϵ −z0
9: Mask the reference position in vθ and v⋆
10: Compute the timestep-weighted mean-squared error and update the Transformer
Algorithm 2 describes the corresponding conditional sampling process. It initializes the future trajectory from
Gaussian noise but fixes the first temporal position to the encoded reference image. At every solver step, conditional
and negative-condition predictions are combined through classifier-free guidance before the Flow-UniPC update. Re-
clamping the clean reference latent after each update prevents the observed frame from drifting as the future frames are
generated. The converged latent is finally inverse-normalized and decoded into the output video.
Algorithm 2 StrucPhysVideo-TI2V Inference
Require: Caption c, reference image I0, sampling steps K, text-guidance scale st
1: hc ←Q(c, I0) and hu ←Q(cneg, I0)
2: zref
0
←N(E(I0))
3: Sample an initial video latent zK ∼N(0, I)
4: Replace the first temporal position of zK with zref
0
5: for k = K, K −1, . . . , 1 do
6:
Predict vcond from (zk, hc) and vuncond from (zk, hu)
7:
bv ←vuncond + st(vcond −vuncond)
8:
zk−1 ←FlowUniPCStep(zk, bv, τk)
9:
Replace the first temporal position of zk−1 with zref
0
10: end for
11: bV ←D(N −1(z0))
12: return bV
28


B
Caption Example
The two caption examples in this appendix describe the video shown as Case 1 in Figure 14. They provide the real
structured caption and the corresponding real raw caption for the same blue-ball and wooden-track sequence.
B.1
Real Structured Caption Example
Listing 1 presents a real structured caption for a five-second clip in which a blue ball moves through a wooden marble run.
Its four top-level keys correspond to the information groups defined in Section 3.3. global_scene_dynamics describes
the setting and progression of the physical event. camera_motion_and_illumination separates camera state,
composition, and lighting from object motion. world_knowledge_and_material_properties records physical
priors governing gravity-driven descent, track-constrained rolling, tangent-direction motion after leaving the track, and
the spatial alignment required to enter the lower track. entity_level_temporal_behaviors records the ball, wooden
run, and human hand together with their visual attributes, spatial relationships, and timestamped behaviors.
For readability, Listing 1 displays the caption as a formatted, multiline JSON object. The actual input to the
StrucPhysVideo text encoder is a compact, single-line JSON string obtained by serializing the caption object, without
inter-field spaces or indentation.
{
"global_scene_dynamics": "The video features a wooden marble run set up on a white table. The run consists of a long, wavy track on the
left and a straight track on the right, both made of light-colored wood. A small blue ball is released at the start of the wavy track. As it
rolls down, it follows the curves of the track, eventually reaching the end of the straight section. When the ball leaves the end of this track
, it must continue straight along the track’s outgoing tangent direction, with no sideways deflection or skew, then fall naturally under
gravity into a second wooden track positioned below the tabletop. The lighting is bright and even, creating a clean and focused
atmosphere on the mechanical action of the ball.",
"camera_motion_and_illumination": {
"camera_motion": "The camera is stationary throughout the entire video, providing a fixed, high-angle perspective of the marble run and
the table.",
"dominant_color": "Red",
"shot_scale": "Wide",
"viewing_angle": "High angle",
"lens_scale": "Medium",
"frame_composition": "Left heavy",
"illumination_quality": "Soft light",
"illumination_source": "Artificial light"
},
"world_knowledge_and_material_properties": [
"Gravity drives the ball along descending sections of the wooden track.",
"While constrained by the track, the rolling ball follows the track’s curved path.",
"When the ball leaves the end of the track, inertia carries it forward along the outgoing tangent direction rather than causing a sideways
deflection.",
"Once unsupported, the ball follows a gravity-driven downward trajectory, and entering the lower track requires the two track sections to be
spatially aligned."
],
"entity_level_temporal_behaviors": [
{
"entity_name": "blue ball",
"visual_description": "A small, solid blue spherical object used as a marble in the run.",
"timestamped_behaviors": [
{
"time_interval": "[0.0s - 0.2s]",
"behavior": "is dropped into the starting hole of the wooden track"
},
{
"time_interval": "[0.2s - 2.5s]",
"behavior": "rolls down the wavy wooden track"
},
{
"time_interval": "[2.5s - 4.0s]",
"behavior": "rolls along the straight wooden track"
},
{
"time_interval": "[4.0s - 5.0s]",
"behavior": "leaves the end of the straight track in its outgoing tangent direction without sideways deflection, then falls under gravity
into the lower wooden track below the tabletop"
}
],
"spatial_location": "starts at the top left, moves through the center, and exits at the bottom right",
"relative_scale": "small",
"form_and_color": "spherical and blue",
"surface_properties": "smooth",
"appearance_attributes": "solid blue color with no visible markings",
29


"scene_relationship": "rolls along the wooden tracks and is released by a hand",
"spatial_orientation": "rolling",
"body_pose": "",
"facial_expression": "",
"apparel": "",
"perceived_gender": "",
"visible_skin_attributes": ""
},
{
"entity_name": "wooden marble run",
"visual_description": "A set of light-colored wooden tracks designed for a marble to roll through.",
"timestamped_behaviors": [
{
"time_interval": "[0.0s - 5.0s]",
"behavior": ""
}
],
"spatial_location": "occupies the left and center portions of the frame",
"relative_scale": "large",
"form_and_color": "long, wavy and straight tracks in light brown wood",
"surface_properties": "smooth wood grain",
"appearance_attributes": "features a wavy section on the left and a straight section on the right",
"scene_relationship": "serves as the path for the blue ball",
"spatial_orientation": "horizontal and slightly diagonal",
"body_pose": "",
"facial_expression": "",
"apparel": "",
"perceived_gender": "",
"visible_skin_attributes": ""
},
{
"entity_name": "human hand",
"visual_description": "A person’s hand visible at the start of the video.",
"timestamped_behaviors": [
{
"time_interval": "[0.0s - 0.2s]",
"behavior": "drops the blue ball into the track"
}
],
"spatial_location": "top left corner of the frame",
"relative_scale": "medium",
"form_and_color": "natural skin tone",
"surface_properties": "smooth",
"appearance_attributes": "only the fingers and part of the palm are visible",
"scene_relationship": "releases the blue ball into the track",
"spatial_orientation": "reaching down",
"body_pose": "fingers pinching the ball",
"facial_expression": "",
"apparel": "",
"perceived_gender": "male",
"visible_skin_attributes": "light skin tone"
}
]
}
Listing 1. Formatted structured-caption JSON example.
30


B.2
Real Raw Caption Example
Listing 2 provides the corresponding real raw caption before conversion into the structured representation above. It
describes the same blue-ball and wooden-track scene as continuous prose, including the intended motion, physical
constraints, stationary scene elements, camera requirements, and visual style.
A realistic physics simulation featuring exactly one single small blue ball rolling down a wooden marble track. The same single blue ball must
remain continuously visible and physically consistent throughout the entire sequence. The ball starts at the upper part of the inclined
wooden track and moves continuously under gravity. The action starts with the ball dropping directly down into the top hole of the
starting cylindrical wooden block. It rolls smoothly along the carved wavy path, following every curve and turn of the track while
maintaining constant contact with the wooden surface. The ball should rotate as it rolls, with realistic friction and inertia, without
sliding, bouncing, floating, or passing through the track.
All wooden tracks, the tabletop, and every background object remain completely stationary, rigid, and unchanged throughout the entire video.
The movement is continuous and stable, with natural momentum conservation and realistic interaction between the ball and the wooden
surface.
Maintain the original camera viewpoint and real-world appearance. Preserve the wooden texture, lighting, shadows, and scale of the scene. The
animation should look like a real physical experiment recorded with a camera, with accurate gravity, collision, and rolling dynamics. No
deformation of objects, no extra objects, no movement of the background tracks, no unrealistic motion.
Style: realistic laboratory physics demonstration, high-quality slow-motion video, natural lighting, real-world physics, accurate object
interaction.
Listing 2. Real raw-caption example corresponding to Listing 1.
31
